<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h2>THE HISTORY OF CANT,</h2>
		<p>OR, THE</p>
		<p>SECRET LANGUAGE OF VAGABONDS.</p>
		<p>Cant  and  Slang  are universal and world-wide.</p>
		<p>Nearly every nation on the face of the globe, polite and barbarous, may be divided into two portions, the stationary and the wandering, the civilised and the uncivilised, the respectable and the scoundrel,—those who have fixed abodes and avail themselves of the refinements of civilisation, and those who go from place to place picking up a precarious livelihood by petty sales, begging, or theft. This peculiarity is to be observed amongst the heathen tribes of the southern hemisphere, as well as the oldest and most refined countries of Europe. As Mayhew very pertinently remarks, " it  would   appear, that  not  only   are all  races</p>
		<p>B</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-2"/>
		<p>'2   BLACK AND COLOURED VAGABONDS.</p>
		<p>divisible into wanderers and settlers, but tliat each civilised or settled tribe has generally some wandering horde intermingled with, and in a measure preying upon it." In South Africa, the naked and miserable Hottentots are pestered by the still more abject  Sonquas;  and it may be some satisfaction for us to know that our old enemies at the Cape, the Kafirs, are troubled with a tribe of rascals called  Fingoes, —the former term, we are informed by travellers, signifying beggars, and the latter wanderers and outcasts. In South America, and among the islands of the Pacific, matters are pretty much the same. Sleek and fat rascals, with not much inclination towards honesty, fatten, or rather fasten, like body insects, upon other rascals, who would be equally sleek and fat but for their vagabond dependents. Luckily for respectable persons, however, vagabonds, both at home and abroad, show certain outward peculiarities which distinguish them from the great mass of lawful people off whom they feed and fatten. Personal observation, and a little research into books, enable me to mark these external traits. The wandering races are remarkable for the development of the bones of the face, as the jaws, cheek-bones, &amp;c., high crowned, stubborn-shaped heads,  quick restless eyes,* and hands nervously</p>
		<p>* " Swarms of vagabouds, whose eyes were so sharp as Lynx." — BuUein's Simples and Surgery,  1562.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-3"/>
		<p>VAGABONDS ALL OVER EUROPE.        3</p>
		<p>itching to be doing;* for their love of gambling, —staking their very existence upon a single cast; for sensuality of all kinds;  and for their use of a CANT  language with which to conceal their designs and plunderings.</p>
		<p>The secret jargon, or rude speech, of the vagabonds who hang upon the Hottentots is termed  cuze-cat. In Finland, the fellows who steal seal skins, pick the pockets of bear-skin overcoats, and talk Cant, are termed Lappes. In France, the secret language of highwaymen, housebreakers, and pickpockets is named  Argot.  The brigands and more romantic rascals of Spain, term their private tongue  Ger-mania,  or Robbers' Language.  Ro 'Jiwalsch,  or Red Italian, is synonymous with Cant and thieves' talk in Germany. The vulgar dialect of Malta, and the Scala towns of the Levant—imported into this country and incorporated with English cant—is known as the  Lingua Franca,  or bastard Italian. And the crowds of lazy beggars that infest the streets of Naples and Rome, and the brigands that Albert Smith used to describe near Pompeii—stopping a railway train, and deliberately rifling the pockets and baggage of the passengers—their secret language is termed  Gergo.  In England, as we all know, it is called  Cant —often improperly  Slang.</p>
		<p>Most nations, then, may boast, or rather lament,</p>
		<p>*  Mayhevo  has a curious idea upon the habitual restlessness of the nomadic tribes,  i.e., "  Whether it be that in the mere act of wandering, there is a greater determination of blood to tlie</p>
		<p>B-2</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-4"/>
		<p>a vulgar tongue, formed principally from tlie national language, the hereditary property of thieves, tramps, and beggars,—the pests of civilised communities. The formation of these secret tongues vary, of course, with the circumstances surrounding the speakers. A writer in  Notes and Queries,*  has well remarked, that " the investigation of the origin and principles of Cant and Slang language opens a curious field of enquiry, replete with considerable interest to the philologist and the philosopher. It affords a remarkable instance of lingual contrivance, which, without the introduction of much arbitrary matter, has developed a system of communicating ideas, having all the advantages of a foreiorn language."</p>
		<p>An inquiry into the etymology of foreign vulgar secret tongues, and their analogy with that spoken in England, would be curious and interesting in the extreme, but neither present space nor personal acquirements permit of the task, and therefore the writer confines himself to a short account of the origin of English Cant.</p>
		<p>The terms  cant  and  canting  were doubtless derived from  chaunt  or  chaunting, —the " whining tone, or modulation of voice adopted by beggars, with intent to coax,' wheedle, or cajole by pre-</p>
		<p>surface of the body, and consequently a less quantity sent to the brain."— London Labov/r,  vol. i., p. 2.</p>
		<p>* Mr. Thos. Lawrence, who promised an  Mi/moloffical, Ccmt, and Slang Dictionary.    Where is the book ?</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-5"/>
		<p>tensions of wretchedness."* For the origin of the other application of the word CANT, pulpit hypocrisy, we are indebted to a pleasant page in the Spectator (No. 147):—"  Cant  is by some people derived from one Andrew Cant, who, they say, was a Presbyterian minister in some illiterate part of Scotland, who by exercise and use had obtained the faculty, alias gift, of talking in the pulpit in such a dialect that 'tis said he was understood by none but his own congregation,—and not by all of them. Since Master  Canfs  time it has been understood in a larger sense, and signifies all exclamations, whinings, unusual tones, and, in fine, all praying and preaching like the unlearned of the Presbyterians." This anecdote is curious, if it is not correct. It was the custom in Addison's time to have a fling at the blue Presbyterians, and the mention made by  Whifelocke  of Andrew Cant, a fanatical Scotch preacher, and the squib upon the same worthy, in  Scotch Presbyterian Eloquence Displayed,  may probably have started the whimsical etymology. As far as we are concerned, however, in the present inquiry, CANT was derived from  chaunt,  a beggar's whine; CHAUNTING being the recognised terra amongst, beggars to this day for begoring orations and street whinings; and CHAUNTER, a Street talker and tramp, the very term still used by strollers and patterers.    The use</p>
		<p>*  Richardson's Dictionary,</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-6"/>
		<p>of the word CANT, amongst beggars, must certainly have commenced at a very early date, for we find " TO CANTE, to speake," in Harman's list of Rogues' Words in the year 1566; and Harrison about the same time,* in speaking of beggars and Gipseys, says, "they have devised a language among themselves which they name CANTING, but others Pedlars' Frenche."</p>
		<p>Now the word  cant  in its old sense, and SLANGf in its modern application, although used by good writers and persons of education as synonymes, are in reality quite distinct and separate terms.  Cant, apart from religious hypocrisy, refers to the old secret language, by allegory or distinct terms, of Gipseys, thieves, tramps, and beggars.  Slang represents that evanescent, vulgar language, ever changing with fashion and taste, which has principally come into vogue during the last seventy or eighty years, spoken by persons in every grade of life, rich and poor, honest and dishonest.^     Cant</p>
		<p>*  Description of England,  prefixed to  Holinshed's CJironicU.</p>
		<p>t The word  Slang,  as will be seen in the chapter upon that subject, is purely a Gipsey term, although now-a-days it refers to low or vulgar language of any kind,—other than cant.  Slanq and  Gibberish  in the Gipsey language are synonymous; but, aa English adoptions, have meanings very difiFerent from that given to them in their original.</p>
		<p>J The vulgar tongue consists of two parts: the first is the Cant  Language; the second, those burlesque phrases, quaint allusions, and nick names for persons, things, and places, which, from long uninterrupted usage, are made classical by prescrip-tion.— Grose's Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, 1st  edition, 1785.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-7"/>
		<p>is old;  Slang  is always modern and changing. To illustrate the difference: a thief in  Cant  language would term a horse a  prancer  or a  prad, —while in  slang,  a man of fashion would speak of it as a BIT OF BLOOD, or a  spanker,  or a  neat tit. A handkerchief, too, would be a  billy,  a  fogle, or a KENT RAG, in the secret lano-uage of low characters,—whilst amongst vulgar persons, or those who aped their speech, it would be called a RAG, a  wipe,  or a  clout. Cant  was formed for purposes of secrecy.  Slang  is indulged in from a desire to appear familiar with life, gaiety, town-humour, and with the transient nick names and street jokes of the day. Both Cant and Slang, I am aware, are often huddled together as synonymes, but they are distinct terms, and as such should be used.</p>
		<p>To the Gipseys, beggars and thieves areundoubt--cdly indebted for their Cant language. The Gipseys landed in this country early in the reign of Henry the Eighth. They were at first treated as conjurors and magicians,—indeed they were hailed by the populace with as much applause as a company of English theatricals usually receive on arriving in a distant colony. They came here with all their old Eastern arts of palmistry, fortune-telling, doubling money by incantation and burial,—shreds of pagan idolatry; and they brought with them, also, the dishonesty of the lower caste of Asiatics, and the vagabondism they had acquired since leaving their</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-8"/>
		<p>ancient dwelling places in the East, many centuries before. They possessed, also, a  language  quite distinct from anything that had been heard in England, and they claimed the title of Egyptians, and as such, when their thievish wandering propensities became a public nuisance, were cautioned and proscribed in a royal proclamation by Henry VIII.* The Gipseys were not long in the country before they found native imitators. Vagabondism is peculiarly catching. The idle, the vagrant, and the criminal outcasts of society, caught an idea from the so called Egyptians—soon corrupted to Gipseys. They learned from them how to tramp, sleep under hedges and trees, to tell fortunes, and find stolen property for a consideration—frequently, as the saying runs, before it was lost. They also learned the value and application of a  secret tongue, indeed all the accompaniments of maunding and imposture, except thieving and begging, which were well known in this country long before the Gipseys paid it a visit,—perhaps the only negative good that can be said in their favour.</p>
		<p>Harman,  in the year 1566, wrote a singular, not to say droll book, entitled,  A Caveat for commen Cvrsetors, vulgarley called Vagahones, newly augmented and inlarged,  wherein the history and various descriptions of rogues and vagabonds are given, together with their canting tongue.    This book,</p>
		<p>* " Outlandish people calling themselves  £gyptians."    1530.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-9"/>
		<p>the earliest of the kind, gives the singular fact that within a dozen years after the landing of the Gipseys, companies of English vagrants were formed, places of meeting appointed, districts for plunder and begging operations marked out, and rules agreed to for their common management. In some cases Gipseys joined the English gangs, in others English vagrants joined the Gipseys. The fellowship was found convenient and profitable, as both parties were aliens to the laws and customs of the country, living in a great measure in the open air, apart from the lawful public, and often meeting each other on the same bye-path, or in the same retired valley ;—but seldom intermarrying, and entirely adopting each other's habits. The common people, too, soon began to consider them as of one family,—all rogues, and from Egypt. The secret language spoken by the Gipseys, principally Hindoo and extremely barbarous to English ears, was found incomprehensible and very difficult to learn. The Gipseys, also, found the same difficulty with the English language. A rude, rough, and most singular compromise was made, and a mixture of Gipsey, Old English, newly-coined words, and cribbings from any foreign, and therefore secret language, mixed and jumbled together, formed what has ever since been known as the  canting LANGUAGE, or PEDLEii's FRENCH ; or, during the past century, ST.  Giles' greek.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-10"/>
		<p>THE  OKIGIN  OF CANT.</p>
		<p>Such was the origin of CANT ; and in illustration of its blending with the Gipsey or Cingari tongue, dusky and Oriental from the sunny plains of Central Asia, I am enabled to give the accompanying list of Gipsey, and often Hindoo words, with, in many instances, their English adoptions.</p>
		<p>Gipsey.   English.</p>
		<p>BAMBOOZLE,  to   perplex or   BAMBOOZLE, to delude, cheat,</p>
		<p>mislead by hiding.  Mod Gip.   or make a fool of any one.</p>
		<p>BOSH, rubbish, nonsense, offal.   BOSH, stupidity, foolishness.</p>
		<p>Gipsey and Persian.</p>
		<p>CHEESE,   thing   or    article,   CHEESE,  or  cheesy,   a first-</p>
		<p>" that's the  cheese,"  or thing.   rate or very good article.</p>
		<p>Gipsey and Hindoo.</p>
		<p>CHIVE, the tongue.     Gipsey.   CHIVE, or cniVEr, a shout, or</p>
		<p>loud-tongued.</p>
		<p>DADE, or  Dadi,  a father.  Gip  DADDY,   nursery  term    for</p>
		<p>sey.   father.*</p>
		<p>DISTARABIN, a prison.    Gip  STURABIN, a prison.</p>
		<p>GAD, or  Gadsi,  a wife.  Gipsey.</p>
		<p>GIBBERISH, the language of Gipseys, synonymous with Slang.     Gipsey.</p>
		<p>ISCHUR, ScHUR, or  Chur,  a thief.     Gipsey and Hindoo.</p>
		<p>LAB, a word.     Gipsey.</p>
		<p>LOWE, or LowR, money.  Gipsey and Wallachian.</p>
		<p>GAD, a female scold ; a woman who tramps over the country with a beggar or hawker.</p>
		<p>GIBBERISH, rapid and unmeaning speech.</p>
		<p>CUR, a mean or dishonest man.</p>
		<p>LOBS, words.</p>
		<p>LOWRE, money.  Ancient Cant.'</p>
		<p>*  In those instances, indicated by a *, it is impossible to say whether or not we are indebted to the Gipseys for the terms. Dad,  in  Welsh,  also signifies a father.  Cur  is stated to be a mere term of reproach, like " Dog," which in all European languages has been applied in an abusive sense. Objections may also be raised against  Gad  and  Maund.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-11"/>
		<p>VULGAK WOKDS  FROM  THE  GIPSEY.</p>
		<p>11</p>
		<p>Oipsey. MAMI, a grandmother.  Gipsey.</p>
		<p>MANG, or  Maung,  to beg. Gipsey and Hindoo.</p>
		<p>MORT, a free woman,—one for common use amongst the male Gipseys, so appointed by Gipsey custom.     Gipsey,</p>
		<p>MU, the mouth.  Gipsey and Hindoo.</p>
		<p>MULL, to spoil or destroy. Gipsey.</p>
		<p>PAL, a brother.     Gipsey.</p>
		<p>pane',  water.  Gipsey. Hindoo,</p>
		<p>PAWNEE.</p>
		<p>RIG, a performance.     Gipsey.</p>
		<p>ROMANY, speech or language. Spanish Gipsey.</p>
		<p>ROME, or RoMM, a man.  Gipsey a/nd Coptick,</p>
		<p>ROMEE, a woman.     Gipsey. SLANG, the language spoken</p>
		<p>by Gipseys.     Gipsey. TAWNO, little.     Gipsey. TSCHIB, or  Jibb,  the tongue.</p>
		<p>Gipsey and Hindoo.</p>
		<p>English. MAMMY, or  Mamma,  a mother,</p>
		<p>formerly sometimes used for</p>
		<p>grandmother. MAUND, to beg.</p>
		<p>MORT, or MoTT, a prostitute.</p>
		<p>MOO, or MuN, the mouth.</p>
		<p>MULL, to spoil, or bungle.</p>
		<p>PAL, a partner, or relation. PARNEY, rain.</p>
		<p>RIG, a frolic, or " spree."</p>
		<p>ROMANY, the Gipsey language.</p>
		<p>RUM, a good man, or thing. In the Robbers' language of Spain (partly Gipsey) EUM signifies a harlot.</p>
		<p>RUMY, a good woman or girl.</p>
		<p>SLANG, low, vulgar, unauthorised language.</p>
		<p>TANNY,  Teeny,  Uttle.</p>
		<p>JIBB, the tongue;  Jabber,* quick-tongued, or fast talk.</p>
		<p>Here then we have the remarkable fact of several words of pure Gipsey and Asiatic origin going the round of Europe, passing into this country before   the   Reformation,  and  coming   down   to</p>
		<p>*  Jabber,  I am reminded, may be only another form of qabber, gab,  very common in Old English, from the  Anglo-Saxon,  GiEBBAN.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-12"/>
		<p>US through numerous generations purely in the mouths of the people. They have seldom been written or used in books, and simply as vulgarisms have they reached our time. Only a few are now cant, and some are household words. The word JOCKEY, as applied to a dealer or rider of horses, came from the Gipsey, and means in that language a whip. Our standard dictionaries give, of course, none but conjectural etymologies. Another word, BAMBOOZLE, has been a sore difficulty with lexicographers. It is not in the old dictionaries, although extensively used in familiar or popular language for the last two centuries ; in fact, the very word that Swift, Butler, L'Estrange, and Arbuthnot would pick out at once as a telling and most serviceable term. It is, as we have seen, from the Gipsey ; and here I must state that it was Boucher who first drew attention to the fact, although in his remarks on the dusky tongue, he has made a ridiculous mistake by concluding it to be identical with its offspring,  cant.  Other parallel instances, with but slight variations from the old Gipsey meanings, could be mentioned, but sufficient examples have been adduced to show that Marsden, the great Oriental scholar in the last century, when he declared before the Society of Antiquaries that the Cant of English thieves and beggars had nothing to do with the language spoken by the despised Gipseys, was in error.   Had</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-13"/>
		<p>GIPSEY ELEMENT IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.     13</p>
		<p>the Gipsey tongue been analysed and committed to writing three centuries ago, there is every probability that many scores of words now in common use could be at once traced to its source. Instances continually occur now-a-days of street vulgarisms ascending to the drawing-rooms of respectable society. Why, then, may not the Gipsey-vagabond alHance three centuries ago have contributed its quota of common words to popular speech ?</p>
		<p>I feel confident there is a Gipsey element in the English language hitherto unrecognised; slender it may be, but not, therefore, unimportant.</p>
		<p>" Indeed," says Moore the poet, in a humorous little book,  Tom Crib's Memorial to Congress,  1819, " the Gipsey language, with the exception of such terms as relate to their own peculiar customs, differs but little from the regular Flash or Cant language." But this was magnifying the importance of the alliance. Moore knew nothing of the Gipsey tongue other than the few Cant words put into the mouths of the beggars, in  Beaumont and Fletcher's Com,edy of the Beggar's Bush,  and  Ben Jonson's Masque of the Gipseys Metamorphosed, — hence his confounding Cant with Gipsey speech, and appealing to the Glossary of Cant for so called " Gipsey" words at the end of the  Life of Bamfylde Moore Carew,  to bear him out in his assertion. Still his remark bears much truth, and proof would have been found long ago if any scholar</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-14"/>
		<p>had taken the trouble to examine the " barbarous jargon of Cant," and to have compared it with Gipsey speech. As George Borrow, in his  Account of the Gipseys in Spain,  eloquently concludes his second volume, speaking of the connection of the Gipseys with Europeans :—" Yet from this temporary association were produced two results: European fraud became sharpened by coming into contact with Asiatic craft; whilst European tongues, by imperceptible degrees, became recruited with various words (some of them wonderfully expressive), many of which have long been stumbling-blocks to the philologist, who, whilst stigmatising them as words of mere vulgar invention, or of unknown origin, has been far from dreaming that a little more research or reflection would have proved their affinity to the Sclavonic, Persian, or Romaic, or perhaps to the mysterious object of his veneration, the Sanscrit, the sacred tongue of the palm-covered regions of Ind; words originally introduced into Europe by objects too miserable to occupy for a moment his lettered attention,—the despised denizens of the tents of Roma."</p>
		<p>But the Gipseys, their speech, their character— bad enough as all the world testifies—their history and their religious belief, have been totally disregarded, and their poor persons buffeted and jostled about until it is a wonder that any trace of origin or national speech exists in them.    On the con-</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-15"/>
		<p>THE  INVENTOR OF  CANTING  NOT  HANGED.        15</p>
		<p>tinent they received better attention at the hands of learned men. Their lansruage was taken down, their history traced, and their extraordinary customs and practice of living in the open air, and eating raw or putrid meat, explained. They ate reptiles and told fortunes, because they had learnt it through their forefathers centuries back in Hindostan, and they devoured carrion because the Hindoo proverb—"  that which God kills is better than that killed by man"* —was still in their remembrance. Grellman, a learned German, was their principal historian, and to him we are almost entirely indebted for the little we know of their language.f</p>
		<p>GiPSEY then started, and partially merged into CANT, and the old story told by Harrison and others, that the first inventor of canting was hanged for his pains, would seem to be a fable, for jargon as it is, it was, doubtless, of gradual formation, like all other languages or systems of speech. The Gipseys at the present day all know the  old cant  words, as well as their own tongue,—or rather what remains of it. As Borrow states, " the dialect of the English Gipseys is mixed with Eng-hsh words."J   Those of the tribe who frequent fairs,</p>
		<p>* This very proverb was mentioned by a young Gipsey to Crahb,  a few years ago.— Gipseys Advocate,  p. 14.</p>
		<p>+ I except, of course, the numerous writers who have followed Grellman, and based their researches upon his labours.</p>
		<p>X Olfseys of Spain,  vol. i., p. 18.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-16"/>
		<p>and mix -with English tramps, readily learn the new words, as they are adopted by what Harman calls, " the fraternity of vagabonds." Indeed, the old CANT is a common languasre to vagrants of all descriptions and origin scattered over the British Isles.</p>
		<p>Ancient EngHsh CANT has considerably altered since the first dictionary was compiled by Harman, in 1566. A great many words are unknown in the present tramps' and thieves' vernacular. Some of them, however, bear still their old definitions, while others have adopted fresh meanings,—to escape detection, I suppose. "  Abraham man  " is yet seen in our modern  sham Abraham,  or  play THE OLD SOLDIER,  i.e.,  to feign sickness or distress. "  Autum"  is still a church or chapel amongst Gipseys; and "  beck,"  a constable, is our modern cant and slang  beek,  a policeman or magistrate. "  Bene,"  or  bone,  stands for  good  in Seven Dials, and the back streets of Westminster; and "  bowse"  is our modern  booze,  to drink or fuddle. A *•  bowsing ken"  was the old cant term for a public house, and  boozing ken,  in modem cant, has precisely the same meaning. "Bufe"  was then the term for a dog, now it is buffer, —frequently applied to men. "  Cassan" is both old and modern cant for cheese; the same may be said of  "chattes"  or  chatts,  the gallows.     " COFE,"  or  COVE, is still the vulgar</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-17"/>
		<p>OLD CANT WORDS WITH MODERN MEANINGS.       17</p>
		<p>synonyme for a man. "  Drawers"  was liose, or *' hosen,"—now applied to the lining for trousers. "  dudes"  was cant for clothes, we now say DUDDS.  "Flag"  is still a fourpenny piece; and "fylche"  means to rob.  "Ken"  is a house, and  "lick"  means to thrash; " prancer"  is yet known amongst rogues as a horse; and " to PRIG," amongst high and low, is to steal. Three centuries ago, if one beggar said anything disagreeable to another, the person annoyed would say " STOW YOU," or hold your peace; low people now say vSTOW IT, equivalent to "be quiet."  "Trine"  is still to hang; "  WYN"  yet stands for a penny. And many other words, as will be seen in the glossary, still retain their ancient meaning.</p>
		<p>As specimens of those words which have altered their original cant signification, I may instance " CHETE," now written  cheat. Chete  was in ancient cant what  chop  is in the Canton-Chinese, —an almost inseparable adjunct. Everything was termed a  CHETE,  and qualified by a substantive-adjective, which showed what kind of a CHETE  was meant ; for instance, "CRASHING chetes"  were teeth; a "  moffling chete,"  a napkin; a "GRUNTING CHETE," a pig, &amp;c. &amp;c. Cheat  now-a-days means to defraud or swindle, and lexicographers have tortured etymology for an original—but without success.  Escheats  and  es-cheatours  have been named, but with great doubts;</p>
		<p>C</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-18"/>
		<p>18    THE WORDS " RUM" AJJD " QUEER" EXPLAINED.</p>
		<p>indeed, Stevens, the learned commentator on Shakespere, acknowledged that he " did not recollect to have met with the word  cheat  in our ancient writers."*  Cheat,  to defraud, then, is no other than an old Cant term, somewhat altered in its meaningjf and as such it should be described in the next Etymological Dictionary. Another instance of a change in the meaning of the old Cant, but the retention of the word is seen in "  CLY," formerly to take or steal, now a pocket;—remembering a certain class of low characters, a curious connection between the two meanings will be discovered. *'  Make"  was a halfpenny, we now say MAG,—MAKE being modern Cant for appropriating,—" convey the wise it call." "  Milling" stood for stealing, it is now a pugilistic term for fighting or beating. "  Nab"  was a head,—low people now say NOB, the former meaning, in modern Cant, to steal or seize. "  Pek  " was meat, — we still say  peckish,  when hungry. *'  Pkygges,  dronken Tinkers or beastly people,'^  as old Harman wrote, would scarcely be imderstood now; a PRIG, in the 19th century, is a pickpocket or thief. "  Quier,"  or  queer,  like  cheat, was   a very common prefix,  and meant  bad  or</p>
		<p>•  Sliakes.    Hen. IV., part 2, act ii, scene 4.</p>
		<p>t It is easy to see how  cheat  became synonymous with " fraud," when we remember that it was one of the most common words of the greatest class of cheats in the country.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-19"/>
		<p>OLD CANT WORDS ENTIRELY OBSOLETE.     19</p>
		<p>wicked,—it now means odd, curious, or strange ; but to the ancient cant we are indebted for the word, which etymologists should remember.* "  Rome,"  or  rum,  formerly meant good, or of the first quality, and was extensively used like  cheat and  queer^ —indeed as an adjective it was the opposite of the latter.  Rum  now means curious, and is synonymous with queer, thus,—a " RUMMY old fellow," or a "  queer  old man." Here again we see the origin of an every day word, scouted by lexicographers and snubbed by respectable persons, but still a word of frequent and popular use. "  Yannam"  meant bread,  pannum  is the word now. Other instances could be pointed out, but they will be observed in the dictionary.</p>
		<p>Several words are entirely obsolete. "  Alybbeg" no longer means a bed, nor "  askew"  a cup. " BoOGET,"t now-a-days, would not be understood for a basket; neither would "  gan"  pass current for mouth.  "Fullams"  was the old cant term for false or loaded dice, and although used by Shake-</p>
		<p>* I am reminded by an eminent philologist that the origin of QUEER is seen in the  German,  quer,  crooked,—hence "odd." I agree with this etymology, but still have reason to believe that the word was/r«&lt; used in this country in a cant sense. Is it mentioned any where as a respectable term before 1500? If not, it had a vulgar or cant introduction into this country.</p>
		<p>t BooGET properly signifies a leathern wallet, and is probably derived from the  low Latin,  BULGA. A tinker's budget is from the same source.</p>
		<p>C2</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-20"/>
		<p>spere in this sense, is now unknown and obsolete. Indeed, as Tom Moore somewhere remarks, the present Greeks of St. Giles, themselves, would be thoroughly puzzled by many of the ancient canting songs,—taking for example, the first verse of an old favourite:</p>
		<p>Bing out, bien Morts, and toure and toure,</p>
		<p>Bing out, bien Morts, and toure; For all your duds are bing'd awast;</p>
		<p>The bien cove hath the loure.*</p>
		<p>But I think I cannot do better than present to the reader at once an entire copy of the first Canting Dictionary ever compiled. As before mentioned, it was the work of one Thos. Harman, a gentleman who lived in the days of Queen Elizabeth. Some writers have remarked that Deckerf was the first to compile a Dictionary of the vagabonds' tongue; whilst Borrow,J and Moore, the poet, stated that Richard Head performed that</p>
		<p>* Which, literally translated, means :</p>
		<p>Go out, good girls, and look and see,</p>
		<p>Go out, good girls, and see; For all your clothes are carried away,</p>
		<p>And the good man has the money.</p>
		<p>t Who wrote about the year 1610.</p>
		<p>+  Gipseys of Spain,  vol. i., p. 18. Borrow further commits himself by remarking that "Head's Vocabulary has always been accepted as the speech of the English Gipseys." Nothing of the kind. Head professed to have lived with the Gipseys, but in reality filched his words from  Decker  and  Bronie.</p>
		<div class="newpage" id="page-21"/>
		<p>service in his  Life of an English Rogue,  published in the year 1680. All these statements are equally incorrect, for the first attempt was made more than a century before the latter work was issued. The quaint spelling and old-fashioned phraseology are preserved, and the reader will quickly detect many vulgar street words, old acquaintances, dressed in antique garb.*</p>
	</body>
</html>
