<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>part0001</title>
    <meta content="abbyy to epub tool, v0.2" name="generator"/>
    <link href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
    <meta content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="body">
      <div class="newpage" id="page-xiv"/>
      <p> CONTENTS.</p>
      <p> ACCOUNT OF THE HIEROGLYPHICS USED BY VAGABONDS.</p>
      <p> Mendicant Fkeemasonrt  — Hieroglyphics of Vagabonds — Maps used by Beggars — Account of a Cadger's Map —Explanation of the Hieroglyphics —Did the Gipseys invent them ? - The Murderer's Signal on the Gallows</p>
      <p> THE HISTORY  OF SLANG,  OR THE VULGAR LANGUAGE OF FAST LIFE.</p>
      <p> Slang at Babylon and Nineveh—Old English Slang— Slang in the time of Cromwell; and in the Court of Charles II. — Swift and Arbuthnot fond of Slang — The origin of  "Cabbage" —"The Real Simon Pure"—Tom Brown and Ned Ward — Did Dr. Johnson compile a Slang Dictionary ?— John Bee's absurd etymology of  Slang —The true origin of the term—Derived from the Gipseys— Bums and his fat friend, Grose—Slang used by all classes, High and Low—Slang in Parliament, and amongst our friends ■—New words not so reprehensible as old words burdened with strange meanings — The poor Foreigner's perplexity — Long and windy Slang words—Vulgar corruptions</p>
      <p> Fashionable Slang</p>
      <p> Pabliamentart Slang  ...</p>
      <p> MiLITAET  AND   DaNDT  SLANQ</p>
      <p> University Slang</p>
      <p> Religious Slang</p>
      <p> Legal Slang,  or Slang amongst the LawyeiB</p>
      <p> Literary Slang,  Punch  on "Slang and Sanscrit"  ...</p>
      <p> Theatrical Slang,  or Slang both before and behind the curtain   ...</p>
      <p> 36—43</p>
      <p> 44—56 58 60 62 64 66 70 71</p>
      <p> 75</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-xv"/>
      <p> PAOR</p>
      <p> Civic Slang    ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   77</p>
      <p> Slang Terms fob SIonev —Hei- Miijesty's coin id insulted by one hundred and thirty distinct Slang terms—Old Slang terms for money—The classical origin of Slang money terms — The terms used by the Ancient Romans vulgarisms in the Nineteenth Century   ...   ...   ...      78—82</p>
      <p> Shopkeepers' Slang     ...   ..   ...   ...   82</p>
      <p> Workmen's Slang,  or Slang in the workshop—Many</p>
      <p> Slang terms for money derived from operatives ...   83</p>
      <p> Slang Apologies for Oaths,  or sham exclamations</p>
      <p> for passion and temper—Slang swearing   ...   85</p>
      <p> Slang Terms for Drunkenness,  and the graduated</p>
      <p> scale of fuddlement and intoxication ...   ...   8G</p>
      <p> DICTIONARY OF MODERN SLANG, CANT, AND VULGAR WORDS;  many with their etymologies traced, together with illustrations, and j-eferences to authorities  ...   ...   ...    89—249</p>
      <p> Some Account of thk Back Slang,  the secret language of Oostermongers—The principle of the Back Slang—Boys and girls soon acquire it— The Back Slang unknown to the Police—Coster-mongers' terms for money—Arithmetic amongst the Costetmongers ...   ...   ...   ... 251—255</p>
      <p> Glossary of the Back Slang  ...   ...   ... 257—262</p>
      <p> Some Account of the Rhyming Slang,  the secret language of Chaunters and Patterers—The origin of the Rhyming Slang—Spoken principally by Vagabond Poets, Patterers, and Cheap Jacks— Patterers "well up" in Street Slang — Curious Slang Letter from a Chaunter   ...   ... 203—268</p>
      <p> Gr.os3ARY OF  the Rhtming Slang   ...   ... 269—273</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-xvi"/>
      <p> PAGE</p>
      <p> The Biblioqbapht op Slang, Cant, and Vulgab Language,  or a list of the books which have been consulted in the compilation of this work, comprising nearly every known treatise upon the Bubjecfc     ...   ...   ...   ...   ... 275—290</p>
      <p> List of Abbbeviatioss   ...   ...   ...   291</p>
      <p> Opinions of the Press upon the First Edition of this</p>
      <p> work—List of New Publications, &amp;c. ...   ...293—300</p>
      <p> A BRA HA M- MEN,  be those that fayn themselves to have beene mad, and have bene kept either in Bethelem, or in some other pryson a good time.</p>
      <p> ALTBBEG,9.heAAe&gt;.</p>
      <p> ASKEW,  a cuppe.</p>
      <p> ^[77'£'J/^,achurche.</p>
      <p> A UTEM MORTES,  married wemen as chaste as a cowe.</p>
      <p> BAUDYE BASKETS,  bee women who goe with baskets and capcases on their armes, wherein they have laces, pinnes, nedles, whyte inkel, and round sylke gyrdels of all colours.</p>
      <p> BECK  [Beek], a constable.</p>
      <p> BELLY-CHETE,  apron.</p>
      <p> BENE,  good.     Benar,  better.</p>
      <p> BENSHIP,  very good.</p>
      <p> BLETING CHETE,  a calfe or sheepe.</p>
      <p> BOOGET,  a travelling tinker's baskete.</p>
      <p> BORDE,  a shilling.</p>
      <p> BOUNG,  a purse  [Priesic,  pong].</p>
      <p> BOWSE,  drink.</p>
      <p> BOWSING-KEN,  a alehouse.</p>
      <p> BUPE  [buffer, a man], a dogge.</p>
      <p> BYNGE A  WASTE,  go you hence.</p>
      <p> CACKLING-CHETE,  a coke [cock], or capon.</p>
      <p> CASSAN  [casaam], cheese.</p>
      <p> CASTERS,  a eloake.</p>
      <p> * The  modem  meanings of a few of the old cant words are given in brackets.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-22"/>
      <p> CATETH,  "the vpright Cofe  cateth to  the Roge" [probably a</p>
      <p> shortening or misprint of  Canteth]. CHATTES,  the gallowes.</p>
      <p> CHETE  [see what has been previously said about this word], CL Y  [a pocket], to take, receive, or have. COPE  [cove], a person. COMMISSION  [mish], a shirt. COUNTERFET CRANKE,  these that do counterfet the Cranke</p>
      <p> be yong knaves and yonge harlots, that deeply dissemble</p>
      <p> the falling sicknes. CRANKE  [cranky, foolish], falling evil [or wasting sickness]. CRASHING-CHETES,  teeth. CUFFEN,  a manne [a  cuif  in Northumberland and Scotland</p>
      <p> signifies a lout or awkward fellow]. DARKEMANS,  the night. DELL,  a yonge wench. DEWSE-A-VYLE,  the countrey. BOCK,  to deflower. BOXES,  harlots. BRA WERS,  hosen. BUBES  [or dudds], clothes. FAMBLES,  handes.</p>
      <p> FAMBLING-CHETE,  a ring on one's hand. FLAGG,  a groat.</p>
      <p> FRA TER,  a beggar wyth a false paper. FRESRE-WATER-MARINERS,    these   kind    of    caterpillers</p>
      <p> counterfet great  losses on the  sea:—their  shippes were</p>
      <p> di'owned in the playne of Salisbury. FYLCHE,  to robbe :  Fylchman  [a robber]. GA GE,  a quart pot. GAN,  a mouth.</p>
      <p> GENTRY COFE,  a noble or gentle man. GENTRY-COFES-KEN,  a noble or gentle man's house. GENTRY MORT,  a noble or gentle woman. GERRY,  excrement. GLASYERS,  eyes. GLYMMAR,  fyer. QRANNAM,  come.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-23"/>
      <p> GRUNTING-CHETE,  a pygge.</p>
      <p> OYB,  a writing.</p>
      <p> GYGER  [jigger], a dore.</p>
      <p> HEARING-CHETES,  eares.</p>
      <p> JARKE,  a seale,</p>
      <p> JARKEMAN,  one who make writings and set seales for [counterfeit] licences and pasports.</p>
      <p> KEN,  a house.</p>
      <p> KYNCHEN CO  [or  cove\,  a young boye trained up like a "  Kynching Morte."  [From the German diminutive  Kind-schen.^</p>
      <p> KYNCHING MORTE,  is a little gyrle, carried at their mothers' backe in a slate, or sheete, who brings them up sauagely.</p>
      <p> LAG,  water.</p>
      <p> LAG OF DUDES,  a bucke [or basket] of clothes.</p>
      <p> LAGE,  to washe.</p>
      <p> LAP,  butter, mylke, or whey.</p>
      <p> LIGHT MANS,  the day.</p>
      <p> LOWING-CHETE,  a cowe.</p>
      <p> LOWRE,  money.</p>
      <p> LUBBARES, —" sturdy iM66arc«," country bumpkins, or men of a low degree.</p>
      <p> LYB-BEG, B^hedi.</p>
      <p> irC/r^ [lick], to beate.</p>
      <p> LYP,  to lie down.</p>
      <p> LYPKEN,  a house to lye in.</p>
      <p> MAKE\m?t.^,  a halfpenny.</p>
      <p> MARGERI PRATER,  a hen.</p>
      <p> MILLING,  to steale [by sending a child in at the window].</p>
      <p> MOFLING-CHETE,  a napkin.</p>
      <p> MORTES  [motts], harlots.</p>
      <p> MYLL,  to robbe.</p>
      <p> MYNT,  gold.</p>
      <p> NAB  [nob], a heade.</p>
      <p> NABCHET,  a hat or cap.</p>
      <p> NASE,  dronken.</p>
      <p> NOSEGENT,  a nunne.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-24"/>
      <p> PALLYARD,  a  borne beggar [who counterfeits sickness, or incurable sores.    They are mostly Welshmen, Harmau says].</p>
      <p> PA RAM,  my Ike.</p>
      <p> P4ri?/C0, a priest.</p>
      <p> PATRICOS KINCHEN,  a  pygge [a satirical hit at the church, Patrico  meaning a parson or priest, and  Kinchen  his little boy or girl].</p>
      <p> PEK  [peckish], meat.</p>
      <p> POPPELARS,  porrage.</p>
      <p> PRAT,  a buttocke.</p>
      <p> PRATLING-CHETE,  a  toung.</p>
      <p> PRA UNCER,  a horse.</p>
      <p> PRIGGER OF PRA UNCERS,  be horse stealers, for to prigge signifieth in their language to steale, and a Pi'auncer is  a horse, so being put together, the matter was playn. [Thus •writes old Thomas Harman, who concludes his description of this order of "pryggers," by very quietly saying, "I had the best gelding stolen out of my pasture, that I  had amongst others, whyle this book was first a printing."]</p>
      <p> PRTGGES,  dronken Tinkers, or beastly people.</p>
      <p> QUACKING-CHETE,  a drake or duck.</p>
      <p> QUAROMES,  a body.</p>
      <p> QUIER  [queer], badde [see what has been previously said about this word].</p>
      <p> QUTER CRAMP-RINGES,  boltes or fetters.</p>
      <p> QUIER CUFFIN,  the iustice of peace.</p>
      <p> QUYER-KYN,  a pryson house.</p>
      <p> RED SEA NEE,  a drake or ducke.</p>
      <p> ROGER,  a goose.</p>
      <p> ROME,  goode [now curious, noted, or remarkable in any way. Rum  is the modern orthography].</p>
      <p> ROME BOUSE  [rum booze] wyne.</p>
      <p> ROME MORT,  the Queene [Elizabeth].</p>
      <p> ROME VYLE  [or Rum-ville], London.</p>
      <p> RUFF PECK,  baken [short bread, common in old times at  farm houses].</p>
      <p> RUFFMANS,  the woods or bushes.</p>
      <p> SALOMON,  a alter or masse.</p>
      <p> SKYPPER,  a bame.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-25"/>
      <p> SLA TE,  a sheete or shetes.</p>
      <p> SMELLING CHETE,  a nose.</p>
      <p> SMELLING CHETE,  a garden or orchard.</p>
      <p> SNOWTFA YRE  [said of a woman who has a pretty face or is comely].</p>
      <p> STALL  [to initiate a beggar or rogue into the rights and privileges of the canting order. Harman relates, that when an upright-man, or initiated, first-class rogue, "mete any beggar, whether he be sturdy or impotent, he will demand of him whether ever he was '  stalled to the roge'  or no. If he say he was, he will know of whom, and his name yt stalled him. And if he be not learnedly able to show him the whole circumstance thereof, he will spoyle him of his money, either of his best garment, if it be worth any money, and haue him to the bowsing ken : which is, to some typpling house next adjoyninge, and layth there to gage the best thing that he hath for twenty pence or two shillings : this man obeyeth for feareof beatinge. Then dooth this upright man call for a gage of bowse, which is a quarte potte of drink, and powres the same vpon his peld pate, adding these words,— I,  G. P.  do stalle the,  W. T.  to the Roge, and that from henceforth it shall be lawfull for thee to cant, that is to aske or begge for thi liuiug in al places." Something like this treatment is the popular idea of Freemasonry, and what schoolboys term " freeing."</p>
      <p> ST AM PES,  legges.</p>
      <p> STAMPERS,  shoes.</p>
      <p> STA ULING KEN,  a house that will receyue stollen wares.</p>
      <p> STA WLINGE-KENS,  tippling houses.</p>
      <p> STO W YOU  [stow it], hold your peace.</p>
      <p> STRIKE,  to steale.</p>
      <p> STROMMELL,  strawe.</p>
      <p> SWADDER,  or  Pedler  [a man who hawks goods].</p>
      <p> THE HIGH PAD,  the highway.</p>
      <p> THE RUFFIAN CLY THEE,  the devil take thee.</p>
      <p> TOGEMANS  [togg], a cloake.</p>
      <p> TOGMAN,  a coate.</p>
      <p> TO BOWSE,  to drinke.</p>
      <p> TO CANTE,  to speake.</p>
      <p> TO CLY THE QERKE,  fco  be  whipped.</p>
      <p> TO COUCH  A HOGSHEAD,  to lie  down and slepe.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-26"/>
      <p> 26  " JAW-BREAKEES," OR HARD WORDS, USED IN CANT.</p>
      <p> TO CUTTE,  to say  {cut it  is modern slang for " be quiet"]. TO CUT BENE WEYDDES,  to speake or give good words. TO CUTTE QUYER WEYDDES,  to giue euil words or euil</p>
      <p> TO CUT BENLE,  to speak gentle.</p>
      <p> TO DUP YE GYGER  [jigger], to  open the dore.</p>
      <p> TO FYLCHE,  to robbe.</p>
      <p> TO HEUE A BOUGH,  to robbe  or rifle aboweth [booth].</p>
      <p> TO MA UNDE,  to aske or require.</p>
      <p> TO MILL A KEN,  to robbe a house.</p>
      <p> TO NYGLE  [coition].</p>
      <p> TO NYP A BOUNG  [nip, to steal], to cut a purse.</p>
      <p> TO  SKOWER   THE  CRAMPRINGES,  to weare   boltes   or fetters.</p>
      <p> TO STALL,  to make or ordain.</p>
      <p> TO THE RUFFIAN,  to the Devil.</p>
      <p> TO TOWRE, to see.</p>
      <p> TRYNING  [trine], hanging.</p>
      <p> TYB OF THE BUTERY, &amp; goose.</p>
      <p> WALKING MORTE,  womene [who pass for widows].</p>
      <p> WAP PING  [coition],</p>
      <p> WHYDDES,  wordes.</p>
      <p> WYN,  a  penny.</p>
      <p> YANNAM,  bread.</p>
      <p> Turning our attention more to the Cant of modern times, in connection with the old, we find that words have been drawn into the thieves' vocabulary from every conceivable source. Hard or infrequent words, vulgarly termed  crack-jaw,  or jaw-breakers,  were very often used and considered as cant terms. And here it should be mentioned that at the present day the most inconsistent and far-fetched terms are often used for secret purposes, when they are known to be caviare to the million.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-27"/>
      <p> It is really laughable to know that such words as incongruous, insipid, interloper, intriguing, indecorum, forestal, equip, hush, grapple,  &amp;c. &amp;c., were current Cant words a century and a half ago; but such was the case, as any one may see in the Dictionary of Canting Words,  at the end of  Bacchus and Venus,*  1737. They are inserted not as jokes or squibs, but as selections from the veritable pocket dictionaries of the Jack Sheppards and Dick Turpins of the day. If they were safely used as unknown and cabalistic terms amongst the commonalty, the fact would form a very curious illustration of the ignorance of our poor ancestors. One piece of information is conveyed to us,  i.e., that the "Knights" or " Gentlemen of the road," using these polite words in those days of highwaymen, were really well educated men, — which heretofore has always been a hard point of beHef, notwithstanding old novels and operas.</p>
      <p> Amongst those Cant words which have either altered their meaning, or have become extinct, I may cite  lady,  formerly the Cant for "a very crooked, deformed, and ill-shapen woman ;"t and</p>
      <p> * This is a curious volume, and is worth from one to two guineas. The Canting Dictionary was afterwards reprinted, word for word, with the title of  The Scoundrel's Dictionary,  in 1751. It was originally published, without date, about the year 1710 by B. E., under the title of a  Dictionary of the Canting Crew.</p>
      <p> t  Bacchus and Venus,  1737.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-28"/>
      <p> 28     VAGABONDS  USED  FOREIGN  WOBDS  AS  CANT.</p>
      <p> HARMAN, " a pair of stocks, or a constable." The former is a pleasant piece of satire, whilst the latter indicates a sino;ular method of revenge. Harmax  was the first author who specially wrote against English vagabonds, and for his trouble his name became synonymous with a pair of stocks, and a policeman of the olden time.</p>
      <p> Apart from the Gipsey element, we find that Cant abounds in terms from foreigfn lanofuages, and that it exhibits the growth of most recognised and completely formed tongues,—the gathering of words from foreign sources. In the reign of Ehza-beth and of King James I., several Dutch, Spanish, and Flemish words were introduced by soldiers who had served in the Low Countries, and sailors who had returned from the Spanish Main, who like " mine ancient Pistol" were fond of garnishing their speech Avith outlandish phrases. Many of these were soon picked up and adopted by vagabonds and tramps in their Cant language. The Anglo-Norman and the Anglo-Saxon, the Scotch, the French, the Italian, and even the classic languages of ancient Italy and Greece, have contributed to its list of words,—besides the various provincial dialects of England. Indeed, as May-hew remarks, English Cant seems to be formed on the same basis as the  Argot  of the French, and the  ItothSproBc  of the Germans,—partly metaphorical, and partly by the introduction of such</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-29"/>
      <p> THE  LINGUA  FRANCA,  OR  BASTARD  ITALIAN.     29</p>
      <p> corrupted foreign terms as are likely to be unknown to the society amid which the Cant speakers exist.  Argot  is the London thieves' word for their secret language,—it is, of course, from the French, but that matters not so long as it is incomprehensible to the police and the mob.  Booze,  or  bouse, I am reminded by a friendly correspondent, comes from the Dutch,  buysen". Domine,  a parson, is from the Latin; and DON, a clever fellow, has been filched from the Spanish.  Donna and feeles, a woman and children, is from the Lingua Franca, or bastax'd Italian, although it sounds like an odd mixture of Spanish and French; whilst  DUDDS,  the vulgar term for clothes, may have been pilfered either from the Gaelic or the Dutch.  Feele,  a daughter, from the French; and EROW, a girl or wife, from the German—are common tramps' terms. So are  gent,  silver, from the French,  Jrgent; and VIAL, a country town, also from the French. Horrid-horn,  a fool, is believed to be from the Erse; and  GLOAK,  a man, from the Scotch. As stated before, the Dictionary will supply numerous other instances.</p>
      <p> Tliere is one source, however, of secret street terms, which, in the first edition of this work, was entirely overlooked,—indeed, it was unknown to the editor until pointed out by a friendly correspondent,—the  Lingua Franca,  or bastard Italian, spoken at Genoa, Trieste, Malta, Constantinople,</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-30"/>
      <p> 30  CANT DERIVED FROM JEWS AND SHOA\^EN,</p>
      <p> Smyrna, Alexandria, and all INIediterranean seaport towns. The ingredients of this imported Cant are many. Its foundation is Italian, with a mixture of modern Greek, German (from the Austrian ports), Spanish, Turkish, and French. It has been introduced to the notice of the London wandering tribes by the sailors, foreign and English, who trade to and from the Mediterranean seaports, by the swarms of organ players from all parts of Italy, and by the makers of images from Rome and Florence,—all of whom, in dense thoroughfares, mingle with our lower orders. It would occupy too much space here to give a list of these words. They are all noted in the Dictionary.</p>
      <p> " There are several Hebrew terms in our Cant language, obtained, it would appear, from the intercourse of the thieves with the Jew  fences (receivers of stolen goods) ; many of the Cant terms, again, are Sanscrit, got from the Gipseys; many Latin, got by the beggars from the Catholic prayers before the Reformation; and many, again, Italian, got from the wandering musicians and others; indeed the showmen have but lately introduced a number of Italian phrases into their Cant languajye."*      The   Hindostanee  also  contributes</p>
      <p> O   CD</p>
      <p> several words, and these have been introduced by the Lascar sailors, who come over here in the East</p>
      <p> * Mayhew's  London   Labour   and   London  Poor,    toI.   iii., No. 43, Oct. 4th, 1851.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-31"/>
      <p> Indiamen, and lodge during their stay in  the  low tramps' lodging houses at the East end of London. Speaking of the learned tongues, I may mention that, precarious and abandoned as the vagabond's existence is, many persons of classical or refined education have from time to time joined the ranks, —occasionally from inclination, as in the popular instance of Bamfylde Moore Carew, but generally through indiscretion, and loss of character* This will in some measure account for numerous classical and learned words figuring as Cant terms in the vulgar Dictionary.</p>
      <p> In the early part of the last century, when highwaymen were by all accounts so plentiful, a great many new words were added to the canting vocabulary, whilst several old terms fell into disuse. Cant,  for instance, as applied to thieves' talk, was supplanted by the word  flash.</p>
      <p> A singular feature, however, in vulgar language, is the retention and the revival of sterling old English words, long since laid up in ancient manuscripts, or the subject of dispute among learned antiquaries. Disraeli somewhere says, " the purest source of  neology  is in the revival of  old words  "— " Words that wise Bacon or brave Rawleigh spake,"</p>
      <p> *  Mayliew  (vol.i., p. 217), speaks of a low lodging-house, "in which there were at one time five university men, three surgeons, and several sorts of broken down clerks." But old Har-nian's saying, that " a wylde Roge is he that is  home  a roge," will perhaps explain this seeming anomaly.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-32"/>
      <p> 32      OLD ENGLISH WORDS NOT FASHIONABLE NOW.</p>
      <p> and Dr. Latham honours our subject by remarking that " the thieves of" London are the conservators of Anglo-Saxonisms." Mayhew, too, in his interesting work,  London Labour and London Poor, admits that many Cant and Slang phrases are merely old English terms, which have become obsolete through the caprices of fashion." And the reader who looks into the Dictionary of the vagabonds' lingo, will see at a glance that these gentlemen were quite correct, and that we are compelled to acknowledge the singular truth that a great many old words, once respectable, and in the mouths of kings and fine ladies, are now only «o many signals for shrugs and shudders amongst exceedingly polite people. A Belgravian gentleman who had lost his watch or his pocket-handkerchief, would scarcely remark to his mamma that it had been  boned —yet  bone,  in old times, meant to steal amongst high and low. And a young lady living in the precincts of dingy, but aristocratic May-Fair, although enraptured with a Jenny Lind or a Ristori, would hardly think of turning back in the box to inform papa that she, Ristori or Lind, " made no  boxes  of it"—yet the phrase was most respectable and well-to-do, before it met with a change of circumstances. " A  CKACK  article," however first-rate, would, as far as speech is concerned, have greatly displeased Dr. Johnson and Mr. Walker—yet both  cback,  in the sense of excel-</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-33"/>
      <p> OCR  OLD  AUTHORS  VERY  VULGAR  PERSONS.     33</p>
      <p> lent, and  crack up,  to boast or praise, were not considered vulgarisms in the time of Henry VIII. Dodge,  a cunning trick, is from the Anglo-Saxon; and ancient nobles used to " get each other's DANDER UP " before appealing to their swords,— quite FLABERGASTING (also a respectable old word) the half score of lookers-on with the thumps and cuts of their heavy weapons.  Gall AVANTING, waiting upon the ladies, was as polite in expression as in action; whilst a clergyman at Panic's Crosse, thought nothing of bidding a noisy hearer to " hold his GAB," or " shut up his GOB."  Gadding,  roaming about in an idle and trapesing manner, was used in an old translation of the Bible; and " to do anything  gingerly  " was to do it with great care. Persons of modern tastes will be shocked to know that the great Lord Bacon spoke of the lower part of a man's face as his GILLS.</p>
      <p> Shakespere, or as the French say, " the divine William," also used many words which are now counted as dreadfully vulgar. "  Clean  gone," in the sense of out of sight, or entirely away ; " you took me all  A-mort,"  or confounded me ; "it won't FADGE," or suit, are phrases taken at random from the great dramatist's works. A London costermonger, or inhabitant of the streets, instead of saying '* I'll make him yield," or " give in," in a fight or contest, would say, " I'll make him BUCKLE under."   Shakespere, in his  Henry the</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-34"/>
      <p> S4   SHAKESPERE  A  PUGILIST?</p>
      <p> Fourth  (Part 2, Acti., Scene 1) has the word, and Mr. HalHwell, one of the greatest and most industrious of living antiquaries, informs us, that " the commentators do not supply another example." How strange, then, that the Bard of Avon, and the Cockney costermongers, should be joint partners and sole proprietors of the vulgarism. If Shake-spere was not a pugiHst, he certainly anticipated the terms of the prize ring—or they were respectable words before the prize ring was thought of— for he has PAT, to beat or thrash, and  pepper, with a similar meaning; also  fancy,  in the sense of pets and favourites,—pugilists are often termed the  FANCY. The cant word PRIG, from the Saxon, priccan,  to filch, is also Shakesperian ; so indeed is PIECE, a contemptuous term for a young woman. Shakespere was not the only vulgar dramatist of his time. Ben Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher, Brome, and other play-wiiters, occasionally put cant words into the mouths of their low characters, or employed old words which have since degenerated into vulgarisms.  Crusty,  poor tempered; " two of a KIDNEY," two of a sort; LARK, a piece of fun ; LUG, to pull; BUNG, to give or pass ; PICKLE, a sad plight;  frump,  to mock, are a few specimens casually picked from the works of the old histrionic writers.</p>
      <p> One  old English mode of canting, simple and effective when familiarised  by practice,  was the</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-35"/>
      <p> inserting a consonant betwixt each syllable ; tbus, taking  g,  " How do you do ?" would be " Hou^ do^ you^ do^ ? The name very properly given to this disagreeable nonsense, we are informed by Grose, was  Gibberish.</p>
      <p> Another Cant has recently been attempted by transposing the initial letters of words, so tliat a mutton chop becomes a cutton wop, a pint of stout a stint of  pout  ; but it is satisfactory to know that it has gained no ground. This is called  Marrow-skying,  or  Medical Greek,  from its use by medical students at the hospitals. Albert Smith terms it the  Gotver-street Dialect.</p>
      <p> The  Language of Ziph,  I may add, is another rude mode of disguising English, in use among the students at Winchester College.</p>
      <p> d2</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-36"/>
      <p> ACCOUNT</p>
      <p> HIEROGLYPHICS USED BY VAGABONDS.</p>
      <p> One  of the most singular chapters in a  History of Vagabondism  would certainly be an account of the Hieroglyphic signs used by tramps and thieves. The reader may be startled to know that, in addition to a secret language, the wandering tribes of this country have private marks and symbolic signs with which to score their successes, failures, and advice to succeeding beggars; in fact, that the country is really dotted over with beggars' finger posts and guide stones. The assertion, however strange it may appear, is no fiction. The subject was not long since brought under the attention of the Government by Mr. Rawlinson.* " There is," he says in his report, " a sort of blackguards' literature, and the initiated understand each other by</p>
      <p> *  Mr. Rawlinson's Report to the  General Board of Health, Parish of Mavant, Hampshire,</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-37"/>
      <p> slang [cant] terms, by pantomimic signs,  and by HIEROGLYPHICS.  The Vagrant's mark may be seen in Havant, on corners of streets, on door posts, and on house steps. Simple as these chalk lines appear, they inform the succeeding vagrants of all they require to know; and a few white scratches may say, ' be importunate,' or  'pass on.^ "</p>
      <p> Another very curious account was taken from a provincial newspaper, published in 1849, and forwarded to  Notes and Queries,^  under the head of Mendicant Freemasonry.  " Persons," remarks the writer, " indiscreet enough to open their purses to the relief of the beggar tribe, would do well to take a readily learned lesson as to the folly of that misguided benevolence which encourages and perpetuates vagabondism. Every door or passage is pregnant with instruction as to the error committed by the patron of beggars, as the beggar-marks show that a system of freemasonry is followed, by which a beggar knows whether it will be worth his while to call into a passage or knock at a door. Let any one examine the entrances to the passages in any town, and there he will find chalk marks, unintelligible to him, but significant enough to beggars. If a thousand towns are examined, the same marks will be found at every passage entrance. The passage mark is a cypher with a twisted tail: in some cases the tail projects</p>
      <p> * Vol. v., p. 210.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-38"/>
      <p> into the passage, in others outwardly ; thus seeming to indicate whether the houses down the passage are worth calhng at or not. Almost every door has its marks: these are varied. In some cases there is a cross on the brick work, in others a cypher: the figures 1, 2, 3, are also used. Every person may for himself test the accuracy of these statements by the examination of the brick Avork near his own doorway—thus demonstrating that mendicity is a regular trade, carried out upon a system calculated to save time, and realise the largest profits." These remarks refer mainly to provincial towns, London being looked upon as the tramps' home, and therefore too  fly,  or experienced, to be duped by such means.</p>
      <p> The only other notice of the hieroglyphics of vagabonds that I have met with, is in  Mayhcws London Labour and London Poor.*  Mayhew obtained his information from two tramps, who stated that hawkers employ these signs as well aa beggars. One tramp thus described the method of WORKiNGf a small town. " Two hawkers (PALSf) go together, but separate when they enter a village, one taking one. side of the road, and selling different things; and so as to inform each other as to the character of the people at whose houses they call,  they chalk certain marks on their door posts J' Another informant stated that " if a PATTERERf * Vol. i., pages 218 and 247.]   [t See Dictionary.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-39"/>
      <p> has been  crabbed  (that is, offended) at any of the CRIBS (houses),  he mostly chalks a signal at or near the doorT</p>
      <p> Another use is also made of these hieroglyphics. Charts of successful begging neighbourhoods are rudely drawn, and symbolical signs attached to each house to show whether benevolent or adverse.* "In many cases there is over the kitchen mantel-piece" of a tramps' lodging-house "  a map of the district^ dotted here and there with memorandums of failure or success."f A correct facsimile of one of these singular maps has been placed as a frontispiece.    It</p>
      <p> • Sometimes, as appears from the following, the names of persons and houses are written instead. "In almost everyone of the padding-kens, or low lodging-houses in the country, there is a list of walks pasted up over the kitchen mantel piece.    Now</p>
      <p> at St. Albans, for instance, at the  , and at other places,</p>
      <p> there is a paper stuck up in each of the kitchens. This paper is headed  "Walks out op this Town,"  and underneath it is set down the names of the villages in the neighbourhood at which a beggar may call when out on his walk, and they are so arranged as to allow the cadger to make a round of about six miles each day, and return the same night. In many of these papers there are sometimes twenty walks set down. No villages that are in any way "gammy" [bad] are ever mentioned in these papers, and the cadger, if he feels inclined to stop for a few days in the town, will be told by the lodging-house keeper, or the other cadgers that he may meet there, what gentlemen's seats or private houses are of any account on the walk that he means to take. The names of the good houses are not set down in the paper for fear of the police."— Mayhew,  vol. i., p. 418. t  Mayhew,  vol. i., p. 218.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-40"/>
      <p> was obtained from the patterers and tramps who supplied a great many words for this work, and who have been employed by me for some time in collecting Old Ballads, Christmas Carols, Dying Speeches, and Last Lamentations, as materials for a  History of Popular Literature.  The reader wilt no doubt be amused with the drawing. The locality depicted is near Maidstone, in Kent, and I am informed that it was probably sketched by a wandering SCEEEVEE * in payment for a night's lodging. The English practice of marking everything, and scratching names on pubHc property, extends itself to the tribe of vagabonds. On the map, as may be seen in the left hand corner, some  teavel-LER* has drawn a favourite or noted female, singularly nick-named  Three-quarter Sarah.  What were the peculiar accomplishments of this lady to demand so uncommon a name, the reader will be at a loss to discover, but a pattcrer says it probably refers to a shuffling dance of that name, common in tramps' lodging-houses, and in which " f Sarah " may have been a proficient. Above her, three beggars or hawkers have reckoned their day's earnings, amounting to 13s.; and on the right a tolerably correct sketch of a low hawker, or coster-monger, is drawn. " To Dover, the  nigh  way," is the exact phraseology; and " hup here," a fair specimen of the self-acquired education of the tribe</p>
      <p> * See Dictionary.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-41"/>
      <p> of cadgers. No key or explanation to the hieroglyphics was given in the original, because it would have been superfluous, when every inmate of the lodging-house knew the marks from their cradle— or rather their mother's back.</p>
      <p> Should there be no map, " in most lodging-houses there is an old man who is guide to every '  avalk'  in the vicinity, and who can tell each house on every round, that is ' good for a cold tatur.' "*    The hieroglyphics that are used are:—</p>
      <p> X     NO GOOD; too poor,  and  know too much.</p>
      <p> f\i    STOP,—If you have what they want, they will buy.</p>
      <p> They are pretty  "fly"  (kuo\ving). •y^   GO IN THIS DIRECTION, it is better than the other</p>
      <p> road.    Nothing tliat way.</p>
      <p> A      BON£  (good).    Safe for a " cold tatur," if for nothing "   else.    "  Cheese your patter"  (don't talk much) heie.</p>
      <p> "^     COOPER'D  (spoilt), by too many tramps calling there. p-j     C.iibrMF (unfavourable), likely to have you taken   up. '•-'   Mind the dog.</p>
      <p> FLUMMUXED  (dangerous), sure of a month in  "quod" (prison).</p>
      <p> RELIGIOUS, but tidy on the whole.</p>
      <p> o</p>
      <p> Where did these signs come from, and when were they first T;sed? are questions which I have asked myself again and again, whilst endeavouring to discover their history. Knowing the character of the Gipseys, and ascertaining from a tramp that they are well acquainted  with the hieroglyphics,</p>
      <p> *  Mayhew,  vol. i., p. 218.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-42"/>
      <p> " and have been as long ago as ever he could remember," I have little hesitation in ascribing the invention to them. And strange it would be if some modern Belzoni, or ChampoUion, discovered in these befj^^ars' marks fragments of ancient Egyptian or Hindoo hieroglyphical writing ! But this, of course, is a simple vagary of the imagination.</p>
      <p> That the Gipseys were in the habit of leaving memorials of the road they had taken, and the successes that had befallen them, there can be no doubt. In an old book.  The Triumph of Wity 1724, there is a passage which appears to have been copied from some older work, and it runs thus:— " The Gipseys set out twice a year, and scatter all over England, each parcel having their appointed stages, that they may not interfere, nor hinder each other; and for that purpose, when they set forward in the country,  they stick up boughs in the icay of divers kinds, according/ as it is agreed among them, that  one company may know which way another is gone, and so take a different road^  The works of Hoyland  and  Borrow  supply other instances.</p>
      <p> I cannot close this subject without drawing attention to the extraordinary fact, that actually on the threshold of the gibbet the sign of the vagabond is to be met with ! " The murderer's signal is even exhibited from the gallows; as a red handkerchief held in the hand of the felon about to be</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-43"/>
      <p> THE  MURDERER'S  SIGNAL  ON  THE  GALLOWS.     43</p>
      <p> executed is a token that he dies without having betrayed any professional secrets."*</p>
      <p> Since the first edition of this work was pubHshed the author has received from various parts of England numerous evidences of the still active use of beggars' marks, and mendicant hieroglyphics. One gentleman writes from Great Yarmouth to say that only a short time since, whilst residing in Norwich, he used frequently to see them on the houses and street corners. From another gentleman, a clergyman, I learn that he has so far made himself acquainted with the meanings of the signs employed, that by himself marking the characters a  (Gammy)  or Q  {Flummuxed)  on the gate posts of his parsonage, he enjoys a singular immunity from alms-seekers of all orders.</p>
      <p> *  Mr. RawUnson's Report to the General Board of Health, — Parish of Mavant, Hampshire.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-44"/>
      <p> THE HISTOKY OF SLANG,</p>
      <p> OB  THE</p>
      <p> VULGAR LANGUAGE  OF  FAST LIFE.</p>
      <p> Slang  is the language of street humour, of fast, high, and low life.  Cant,  as was stated in the chapter upon that subject, is the vulgar language of secrecy. They are both universal and ancient, and appear to have been the peculiar concomitants of gay, vulgar, or worthless persons in every part of the world, at every period of time. Indeed, if we are to believe implicitly the saying of  the  wise man, that " there is nothing new under the sun," the " fast" men of buried Nineveh, with their knotty and door-matty looking beards, may have cracked Slang jokes on the steps of Sennacherib's palace; and the stocks and stones of Ancient Egypt, and the bricks of venerable and used-up Babylon, may, for aught we know, be covered with Slang hieroglyphics unknown to modern antiquarians, and which have long been stumbling-blocks to the philologist; so impossible is it at this</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-45"/>
      <p> day to say what was then authorised, or what then vulgar language. Slang is as old as speech and the congregating together of people in cities. It is the result of crowding, and excitement, and artificial life. Even to the classics it was not unknown, as witness the pages of Aristophanes and Plautus, Terence and Athenaeus. Martial, the epigrammatist, is full of Slang. When an uninvited guest accompanied his friend, the Slang of the day styled him his  umbra;  when a man was trussed, neck and heels, it called him jocosely  quadrupus.</p>
      <p> Old English Slang was coarser, and depended more upon downright vulgarity than our modern Slang. It was a jesting speech, or humorous indulgence for the thoughtless moment, or the drunken hour, and it acted as a vent-peg for a fit of temper or irritability; but it did not interlard and permeate every description of conversation as now. It was confined to nick-names and improper subjects, and encroached but to a very small extent upon the domain of authorised speech. Indeed, it was exceedingly limited when compared with the vast territory of Slang in such general favour and complete circulation at the present day. Still, although not an alarming encumbrance, as in our time. Slang certainly did exist in this country centuries ago, as we may see if we look down the page of any respectable History of England. Cromwell was familiarly called OLD  noll, —^just the same</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-46"/>
      <p> as Buonaparte was termed  boney,  and Wellington CONKEY, or NOSEY, only a few years ago. His Legislature, too, was spoken of in a high-flavoured way as the  bare bones,  or  eump  ParUament, and his followers were nicknamed  roundheads,  and the peculiar religious sects of his protectorate were styled PURITANS and  Quakers.*  The Ci\Til War pamphlets, and the satirical hits of the Cavaliers and the Commonwealth men, originated numerous Slang words and vulgar similes, in full use at the present moment. Here is a field of inquiry for the Philological Society, indeed I may say a territory, for there are thirty thousand of these partisan tracts. Later still, in the court of Charles the Second, the naughty ladies and the gay lords, with Rochester at their head, talked Slang; and very naughty Slang it was too! Fops, in those days, when " over head and ears" in debt, and in continual fear of arrest, termed their enemies, the bailiffs, PHiLiSTiNESf or MOAJBITES. At a later period, when collars were worn detached from shirts, in order to save the expense of washing—an object it would seem with needy " swells" in all ages—they obtained the name of JACOBITES.     One   half of the  coarse wit  in</p>
      <p> * This term, with a singular literal dowmightness, which would be remarkable in any other people than the French, is translated by them as the sect of  Trembleurs.</p>
      <p> t Swift alludes to this term in his  Art of Polite Conversation, p. 14.    1738.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-47"/>
      <p> SWIFT  AND  ARBUTHNOT  FOND   OF  SLANG.        47</p>
      <p> Butler's Hudibras lurks in the vulgar words and phrases which he was so fond of employing. They •were more homely and forcible than the mild and elegant sentences of Cowley, and the people, therefore, liurrah'd them, and pronounced Butler one of themselves.—or, as we should say, in a joyful moment, a jolly good fellow. Orator Henley preaclied and prayed in Slang, and first charmed and then swayed the dirty mobs in Lincoln's Inn Fields by vulgarisms. Burly Grose mentions Henley, Avith the remark that we owe a great many Slang phrases to him. Swift, and old Sir Roger L'Estrange, and Arbuthnot, were all fond of vulgar or Slang language; indeed, we may see from a Slang word used by the latter how curious is the gradual adoption of vulgar terms in our standard dictionaries. The worthy doctor, in order to annihilate (or, as we should say with a fitting respect to the subject under consideration,  smash)  an opponent, thought proper on an occasion to use the word CABBAGE, not in the ancient and esculentary sense of a flatulent vegetable of the kitchen garden, but in the at once Slang sense of purloining or cribbing. Johnson soon met with the word, looked at it, examined it, weighed it, and shook his head, but out of respect to a brother doctor inserted it in his dictionary, labelling it, however, prominently '*  Cant f  whilst Walker and Webster, years after, when  to cabbage  was  to pilfer  all over England,</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-48"/>
      <p> placed the term in their dictionaries as an ancient and very respectable word. Another Slang term, GULL, to cheat, or delude, sometimes varied to GULLY, is stated to be connected with the Dean of St. Patrick.  Gull,  a dupe, or a fool, is often used by our old dramatists, and is generally believed to have given rise to the verb; but a curious little edition of  Bamfylde Moore Carew,  published in 1827, says that TO GULL, or  gully,  is derived from the well known  Gulliver,  the hero of the famous  Travels.  How crammed with Slang are the dramatic works of the last century ! The writers of the comedies and farces in those days must have lived in the streets, and written their plays in the public-houses, so filled are they with vulgarisms and unauthorised words. The popular phrases, " I owe you one," " that's one for his nob," and " keep moving, dad," arose in this way.* The second of these sayings was, doubtless, taken from the card table, for at cribbage the player who holds the knave of the suit turned up counts " one for his nob," and the dealer who turns up a knave counts " two for his heels."</p>
      <p> In Mrs. Centlivre's admirable comedy of  A Bold Stroke for a Wife,  we see the origin of that popular street phrase, THE  real simon pure. Simon Pure is the Quaker name adopted by Colonel Feignwell as a trick to obtain the hand of</p>
      <p> * See  Notes and Queries,  vol. i., p. 185.   1850.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-49"/>
      <p> Mistress Anne Lovely in marriage. The veritable Quaker, the " real Simon Pure," recommended by Aminadab Holdfast, of Bristol, as a fit sojourner with Obadiah Prim, arrives at last to the discomfiture of the Colonel, who, to maintain his position and gain time, concocts a letter in which the real Quaker is spoken of as a housebreaker who had travelled in the " leather conveniency" from Bristol, and adopted the garb and name of the Western Quaker in order to pass ofi* as the "  real SIMON PURE," but only for the purpose of robbing the house and cutting the throat of the perplexed Obadiah. The scene in which the two Simon Pures, the  real  and the  counterfeit,  meet, is one of the best in the comedy.</p>
      <p> Tom Brown, of " facetious memory," as his friends were wont to say, and Ned Ward, who wrote humorous books, and when tired drew beer for his customers at his ale-house in Long Acre,* were both great producers of Slang in the last century, and to them we owe many popular current phrases and household words.</p>
      <p> Written Slang was checked rather than advanced by the pens of Addison, Johnson, and Goldsmith, although John Bee, the bottle-holder and historiographer of the pugilistic band of brothers in the youthful days of flat-nosed Tom Crib, has gravely</p>
      <p> • He afterwards kept a tavern at Wapping, mentioned by Pope in the  Dunciad,</p>
      <p> £</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-50"/>
      <p> 50      WAS DR.   JOHNSON WELL  "UP"  IN   SLANG?</p>
      <p> stated that Johnson, when young and rakish, contributed to an early volume of the  Gentleman's Magazine  a few pages, by way of specimen, of a Slang dictionary, the result, Mr. Bee says, " of his midnight ramblings!"* And Goldsmith, I must not forget to remark, certainly coined a few words, although, as a rule, his pen was pure and graceful, and adverse to neologisms. The word  fudge,  it has been stated, was first used by him in literary composition, although it originated with one Captain Fudge, a notorious fibber, nearly a century before. Street-phrases, nick-names, and vulgar Avords were continually being added to the great stock of popular Slang up to the commencement of the present century, Avhen it received numerous additions from pugilism, horse-racing, and "fast" life generally, which suddenly came into great public favour, and was at its height when the Prince Regent was in his rakish minority. Slang in those days was generally termed  flash  language. So popular was it with the " bloods " of high life that it constituted the best paying literary capital for certain authors and dramatists. Pierce Egan issued  Boxiana,  and  Life in London,  six portly octavo volumes, crammed with Slang; and Moncriefi* wrote the most popular farce of the day,  Tom and Jerry  (adapted from the latter work), which, to use newspaper Slang, " took</p>
      <p> •  Sportsman's Dictionary,  1825, p. 15.    I have seaiched the venerable magaziue in vain for this Slang glossary.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-51"/>
      <p> WHERE DID THE WORD " SLANG " GOME FROM '?     51</p>
      <p> the town by storm," and, with its then fashionable vulgarisms, made the fortune of the old Adelphi Theatre, and was, without exception, the most wonderful instance of a continuous theatrical RUN in ancient or modern times. This, also, was brimful of Slang. Other authors helped to popularise and extend Slang down to our own time, when it has taken a somewhat different turn, dropping many of the Cant and old vulgar words, and assuming a certain quaint and fashionable phraseology—Frenchy, familiar, utilitarian, and jovial. There can be no doubt but that common speech is greatly influenced by fashion, fresh manners, and that general change of ideas which steals over a people once in a generation. But before I proceed further into the region of  Slang,  it will be well to say something on the etymology of the word.</p>
      <p> The word  Slang  is only mentioned by two lexicographers—Webster and Ogilvie. Johnson, Walker, and the older compilers of dictionaries, give  s/ang  the preterite of  sUng,  but not a word about  Slang  in the sense of low, vulgar, or unrecognised language. The origin of the word has often been asked for in literary journals and books, but only one man, as far as I can learn, has ever hazarded an etymology—Jonathan Bee, the vulgar chronicler of the prize-ring.* With a recklessness peculhir to pugihsm. Bee stated that  Slang  was • latroduction to  Bee's Spoi'lsmans Dictionary,  1825.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-52"/>
      <p> derived from "the  slants  or fetters worn by prisoners, having acquired that name from the manner in which they were worn, as they required a sling of string to keep them off the ground." Bee had just been nettled at Pierce Egan producing a new edition of  Grose s Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue, and was determined to excel him in a vulgar dictionary of his own, which should be more racy, more pugilistic, and more original. How far he succeeded in this latter particular his ridiculous etymology of Slang will show.  Slang  is not an English word, it is the Gipsey term for their secret language, and its synonyme is  gibberish —another word which was believed to have had no distinct origin.* Grose—stout and burly Captain Grose —who we may characterise as the greatest antiquary, joker, and drinker of porter of his day, was the first author who put the word  Slang  into print. Ili^occurs in his  Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue,  of 1785, with the signification that it implies "Cant or vulgar language."    Grose, I</p>
      <p> * The Gipseys use tlie word Slang as the Anglican synonyme for Romany, the continental (or rather Spanish) term for the Cingari or Gipsey tongue.  Crahb,  who wrote the  Gipsies' Advocate  in 1831, thus mentions the word :—" This language [Gipsey] called by themselves  Slang,  or  Gibberish,  invented, as they think, by their forefathers for secret purposes, is not merely the language of one or a few of these wandering tribes, which are found in the European nations, but is adopted by the vast numbers who inhabit the earth."</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-53"/>
      <p> SLANG USED BY ALL CLASSES, HIGH AND LOW.     53</p>
      <p> may remark in passing, Avas a great favourite with the poet Burns, and so pleased by his extensive powers of story-telling and grog-imbibing, that the companionable and humour-loving Scotch bard wrote for his fat friend—or, to use his own words, *' the fine, fat, fodgel wight"—the immortal poem of " Tarn O'Shanter."</p>
      <p> Without troublinoj the reader with a lonfj account of the transformation .into an English term of the word  Slang,  I may remark in passing tliat it is easily seen how we obtained it from the Gipseys. Hucksters and beggars on tramp, or at fairs and races, associate and frequently join in any rough enterprise with the Gipseys. The word would be continually heard by them, and would in this manner soon become  Cant;*  and, when carried by " fast" or vulgar fashionables from the society of thieves and low characters to their own drawing-rooms, would as quickly become  Slang,  and the representative term for all vulgar or Slang language.</p>
      <p> Any sudden excitement, peculiar circumstance,</p>
      <p> or popular literary production, is quite sufficient to</p>
      <p> originate and set going  a score  of Slang words.</p>
      <p> Nearly every election or public agitation tlirows out</p>
      <p> offshoots of the excitement, or scintillations of the</p>
      <p> • The word  Slang  assumed various meanings amongst coster-mongers, beggars, and vagabonds of all orders. It was, and is still, used to express cheating by false weights, a raree show, for retiring by a back door, for a wateh-cbaiu, and for their secret</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-54"/>
      <p> humour in the shape of Slang terms—vulgar at first, but at length adopted as semi-respectable from the force of habit and custom. There is scarcely a condition or calling in life that does not possess its own peculiar Slang. The professions, legal and medical, have each familiar and unauthorised terms for peculiar circumstances and things, and I am quite certain that the clerical calling, or "  the cloth,^'  is not entirely free from this peculiarity. Every workshop, warehouse, factory, and mill throughout the country has its Slang, and so have the public schools of Eton, Harrow, and Westminster, and the great Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Sea Slang constitutes the principal charm of a sailor's " yarn," and our soldiers and ofl&amp;cers have each their peculiar nicknames and terms for things and subjects proper and improper. A writer in  Household Words  (No. 183) has gone so far as to remark, that a person " shall not read one single parhamentary debate, as reported in a first-class newspaper, without meeting scores of Slang words ;" and " that from Mr. Speaker in his chair, to the Cabinet Ministers whispering behind it—from mover to seconder, from true blue Protectionist to extremest Radical—Mr. Barry's New House echoes and re-echoes with Slang." Really it seems as if our boasted Englisli tongue was a very paltry and ill-provided contrivance after all; or can it be that we are the most vulgar of people ?</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-55"/>
      <p> THE  POOR FOREIGNER'S  PERPLEXITY.   QO</p>
      <p> The universality of Slang is extraordinary.    Let any person for a short time narrowly examine the conversation of their dearest and nearest friends, aye, censor-like, even slice and analyse their own supposed correct talk, and they shall be amazed at the numerous unauthorised, and what we can only call vulgar,   words  they continually  employ.    It is not the number of new words that we are ever introducing that is so reprehensible, there is not so much harm in this practice (frequently termed in books "the license  of expression") if neologisms are really required, but it is the continually encumbering of  old  words with fresh and strange meanings.     Look  at  those  simple  and  useful  verbs, do,  cut, go,   and    take,    and   see   how  they  are hampered  and overloaded,   and  then  let   us ask ourselves   how   it  is that   a   French   or German gentleman, be he ever  so well educated, is continually blundering and floundering amongst our little  words when trying to make himself understood in an ordinary conversation.    He may have studied our language the required time, and have gone through the usual amount of ''grinding," and practised the common allotment of patience, but all to no purpose as far as accuracy is concerned.    I am aware that most new words are generally regarded as   Slang, although afterwards   they  may become  useful  and respectable   additions to   our standard dictionaries.     Jabber  and  hoax   were</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-56"/>
      <p> Slang and Cant terms in Swift's time; so indeed were  mob  and  sham.*  Words directly from the Latin and Greek, and Carlyleisms, are allowed by an indulgent public to pass and take their places in books. Sound contributes many Slang words—a source that etymologists too frequently overlook. Nothing pleases an ignorant person more than a high-sounding term " full of fury.'* How melodious and drum-like are those vulgar coruscations  rumbumptious, slantingdicular,</p>
      <p> SPLENDIFEROUS, RUMBUSTIOUS, and FERRICA-DOUZER. What a "pull" the sharp-nosed lodging-house keeper thinks she has over her victims if she can but hurl such testimonies of a liberal education at them when they are disputing her charges, and threatening to  absquatulate  ! In the United States the vulgar-genteel even excel the poor " stuck-up" Cockneys in their formation of a native fashionable language. How charming to a refined ear are  abskize, catawam-</p>
      <p> POUSLY,    EXFLUNCTIFY,      OBSCUTE,     KESL08H,</p>
      <p> KESOUSE, KESWOLLOP, and KEWHOLLUX! Vulgar words representing action and brisk movement</p>
      <p> *  North,  in his  Examen,  p. 574, says, " I may Dote that the rabble first changed their title, and were called the  mob  in the assemblies of this [Green Ribbon] club. It was their beast of burden, and called first  mobile vulgus,  but fell naturally into the contraction of one syllable, and ever since is become proper English." In the same work, jj. 231, the disgraceful origin of SHAM is given.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-57"/>
      <p> often owe tlieir origin to sound. Mispronunciation, too, is another great source of vulgar or slang words—RAMSHACKLE, SHACKLY, NARY-ONE for neither, or neither one,  ottomy  for anatomy, RENCH for rinse, are specimens. The commonalty dislike frequently occurring words difficult of pronunciation, and so we have the street abridgments of BiMEBY for by and by,  Caze  for because, GIN for given,  hankercher  for handkerchief, RUMA-Tiz for rheumatism,  backy  for tobacco, and many others, not perhaps Slang, but certainly all vulgarisms. Archbishop Whately, in his interesting Remains of Bishop Copleston,  has inserted a leaf from the Bishop's note-book on the popular corruption of names, mentioning among others  kickshaws,  as from the French,  quelques chases; beefeater,  the lubberly guardian of royalty in a procession, and the supposed devourer of enormous beefsteaks, as but a vulgar pronunciation of the French,  hiiffetier;  and  george  and  cannon,  the sign of a public-house, as nothing but a corruption (although so soon!) of the popular premier of the last generation,  George Canning. Literature has its Slang terms; and the desire on the part of writers to say funny and startling things in a novel and curious way (the late  Household Words,*^  for instance), contributes many unauthorised words to the great stock of Slang.</p>
      <p> * It is rather singular that this popular journal should have contained a long article on  Slang  a short time ago.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-58"/>
      <p> Fashionable,  or  Upper-class Slang,  is of several varieties. There is the Belgravian, miUtary and naval, parliamentary, dandy, and the reunion and visiting Slang, Concerning the Slang of the fashionable world, a writer in  Household Words curiously, but not altogether truthfully, remarks, that it is mostly imported from France; and that an unmeaning gibberish of Gallicisms runs through English fashionable conversation, and fashionable novels, and accounts of fashionable parties in the fashionable newspapers. Yet, ludicrously enough, immediately the fashionable magnates of England seize on any French idiom, the French themselves not only universally abandon it to us, but positively repudiate it altogether from their idiomatic vocabulary. If you were to tell a well-bred Frenchman that such and such an aristocratic marriage was on the  tapis,  he would stare with astonishment, and look down on the carpet in the startled endeavour to find a marriage in so unusual a place. If you were to talk to him of the  beau monde,  he would imagine you meant the world which God made, not half-a-dozen streets and squares between Hyde Park Corner and Chelsea Bun House. The the dansante*  would be completely inexplicable to him.    If you were to point out to him the Dow-</p>
      <p> * The writer is quite correct in instanciog this piece of fashionable twaddle. The mongrel formation is exceedingly amusing to a polite Parisian.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-59"/>
      <p> ager Lady Grimguffin acting as  chaperon  to Lady Amanda Creamville, he would imagine you were referring to the  petit Chaperon rouge  — to little Red Riding Hood. He might just understand what was meant by  vis-a-vis, entremets,  and some others of the flying horde of frivolous little foreign slangisms hovering about fashionable cookery and fashionable furniture ; but three-fourths of them would seem to him as barbarous French provincialisms, or, at best, but as antiquated and obsolete expressions, picked out of the letters of Mademoiselle Scuderi, or the tales of Crebillon the ''younger." Servants, too, appropriate the scraps of French conversation which fall from their masters' guests at the dinner table, and forthwith in the world of flunkeydom the word " know" is disused, and the lady's maid, in doubt on a particular point, asks John whether or no he  saveys it ?* What, too, can be more abominable than that heartless piece of fashionable newspaper Slang, regularly employed when speaking of the successful courtship of young people in the fashionable world:—</p>
      <p> MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE.-We understand that a marriage is ARRANGED (!) betwixt the Lady, &amp;;c. &amp;c., and the Honourable, &amp;c. &amp;c.</p>
      <p> Arranged  ! Is that cold-blooded Smithfield or Mark-lane term for a sale or a purchase the proper</p>
      <p> * Savez vous cela ?</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-60"/>
      <p> word to express the hopeful, joyous, golden union of young and trustful hearts? Which is the proper way to pronounce the names of great people, and what the correct authority ? Lord Cowper, we are often assured, is Lord  Cooper —on this principle Lord Cowley would certainly be Lord  Cooley — and Mr. Carew, we are told, should be Mr.  Carey, Ponsonby should be  Punsunby,  Eyre should be Aire,  Cholinondeley should be  Chumley,  St. John Sing en,  Majoribanks  Marshbanks,  Derby  Darby  (its ancient pronunciation), and Powell should always be  Poel.  I don't know that these lofty persons have as much cause to complain of the illiberallty of fate in giving them disagreeable names as did the celebrated Psyche (as she was termed by Tom Moore), whose original name, through her husband, was Teayue,  but which was afterwards altered to Tighe. Parliamentary Slang,  excepting a few peculiar terms connected with "  the  House" (scarcely Slang, I suppose), is mainly composed of fashionable, literary, and learned Slang. When members, however, get excited and wish to be forcible, they are often not very particular which of the street terms they select, providing it carries, as good old Dr. South said, plenty of wild-fire in it. Sir Hugh Cairns very lately spoke of " that homely but expressive phrase,  dodge."  Out of " the House," several Slang terms are used in connection with Parliament or  members  of Parliament.    If Lord</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-61"/>
      <p> Palmerston is known by name to the tribes of the Caucasus and Asia Minor as a great foreign diplomatist, when the name of our Queen Victoria is an unknown title to the inhabitants of those parts—as was stated in the  Times  a short time ago,—I have only to remark that amongst the costers and the wild inhabitants of the streets he is better known as  pam.  I have often heard the cabmen on the " ranks" in Piccadilly remark of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he has been going from his residence at Grosvenor Gate, to Derby House in St. James's Square,—■ " hollo, there! de yer see old  dizzy  doing a stump?" A PLUMPER is a single vote at an election,—not a SPLIT-TICKET; and electors who have occupied a house, no matter how small, and boiled a pot in it, thus qualifying themselves for voting, are termed  pot-wollopers.  A quiet  walk over is a re-election without opposition and much cost. A CAUCUS meeting refers to the private assembling of politicians before an election, when candidates are chosen and measures of action agreed upon. The term comes from America. A  job,  in political phraseology, is a government office or contract obtained by secret influence or favouritism. Only the other day the  Times  spoke of " the patriotic member of Parliament  potted out  in a dusty little lodging somewhere about Bury-street." The term  quockerwodger,  although referring  to  a</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-62"/>
      <p> wooden toy figure wliich jerks its limbs about when pulled by a string, has been supplemented with a political meaning. A pseudo-politician, one whose strings of action are pulled by somebody else, is now often termed a  quockerwodger.  The term  rat,  too, in allusion to rats deserting vessels about to sink, has long been employed towards those turncoat politicians who change their party for interest. Who that occasionally passes near the Houses of Parliament has not often noticed stout or careful M.P.s walk briskly through the Hall and on the curb-stone in front, with umbrella or walking cane uplifted, shout to the cabmen on the rank,  four-wheeler  ! The term is a useful one, but I am afraid we miist consider it Slang, until it is stamped with the mint mark of lexicographical authority.*</p>
      <p> Military,  or  Officers' Slang  is on a par, and of a character with  Dandy Slang.  Inconvenient friends, or elderly and lecturing relatives, are pronounced dreadful bores.  Four-wheel cabs are called BOUNDERS;   and a  member of the Four-in-hand</p>
      <p> * From an early period politics  and  partyiam have attracted unto themselves quaint Slang terms. Horace Walpole quotes a party nickuame of February, 1742, as a Slang word of the day :— " The Tories declare against any further prosecution, if Tories there are, for now one hears of nothing but the  broad-bottom; it is the reigning Cant word, and means the taking all parties and people, indifferently, into the ministry." Thus  broad-bottom  in those days was !;Iang for  coalition.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-63"/>
      <p> Club, driving to Epsom on tlie Derby day, would, xisiug fashionable slang phraseology, speak of it as</p>
      <p> TOOLING   HIS   DRAG   DOWN  TO   THE   DEKBY.     A</p>
      <p> vehicle, if not a  drag  (or dwag) is a  trap,  or a CASK; and if the TURN OUT happens to be in other than a trim condition, it is pronounced at once as not  down the road.  Your city swell would say it is not UP TO  the mark;  whilst the costermonger would call it  wery  DICKEY. In the army a barrack or military station is known as a LOBSTER-BOX; to "cram" for an examination is to MUG-UP; to reject from the examination is to SPIN; and that part of the barrack occupied by subalterns is frequently spoken of as the  rookery. In dandy or swell Slang, any celebrity, from Rob-son of the Olympic, to the Pope of Rome, is a SWELL. Wrinkled faced old professors, who hold dress and fashionable tailors in abhorrence, are called AAVFUL SWELLS,—if they happen to be very learned or clever. I may remark that in this upper class Slang a title is termed a  handle;  trousers, INEXPRESSIBLES; or when of a large pattern, or the inflated Zouave cut,  howling bags  ; a superior appearance,  extensive;  a four-wheeled cab, a BIRDCAGE; a dance, a HOP; dining at another man's table, " sitting under his MAHOGANY;" anything flashy or showy, LOUD; the peculiar make or cut of a coat, its BUILD; full dress,  full-fig  ; wearing clothes which represent</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-64"/>
      <p> the very extreme of fashion, " dressing to DEATH;" a reunion, a  spread;  a friend (or a " good fellow"), a TRUMP; a difficulty, a  screw  LOOSE; and everything that is unpleasant, " from bad sherry to a writ from a tailor,"  jeuced infernal.  The military phrase, " to send a man to  Coventry," or permit no person to speak to him, although an ancient saying, must still be considered Slang.</p>
      <p> The  Universities of Oxford and Cambridge,  and the great public schools, are the hotbeds of fashionable Slang. Growing boys and high-spirited young fellows detest restraint of all kinds, and prefer making a dash at life in a Slang phraseology of their own, to all the set forms and syntactical rules of  Alma Mater.  Many of the most expressive words in a common chit-chat, or free-and-easy conversation, are old University vulgarisms.  Cut,  in the sense of dropping an acquaintance, was originally a Cambridge form of speech; and nOAX, to deceive or ridicule, we are informed by Grose, was many years since an Oxford term. Among the words that fast society has borrowed from our great scholastic [I was going to say  establishments,  but I remembered the linen drapers' horrid and habitual use of the word] institutions, I find  crib,  a house or apartments;  dead-men,  empty wine bottles; DRAWING     teeth,*     wrenching   off   knockers ;</p>
      <p> * This is more especially an amusement with medical students, and is comparatively unknown out of London.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-65"/>
      <p> FIZZING, first-rate, or splendid;  governor,  or RELIEVING OEFICER, the general term for a male parent; PLUCKED, defeated or turned back; QUIZ, to scrutinise, or a prying old fellow; and ROW, a noisy disturbance. The Slang words in use at Oxford and Cambridge would alone fill a volume. As examples I may instance SCOUT, which at Oxford refers to an undergraduate's valet, whilst the same menial at Cambridge is termed a GYP,—popularly derived by tlie Cantabs from the Greek, GYPS {yvxp),  a vulture;  scull,  the head, or master of a college;  battles,  the Oxford term for rations, changed at Cambridge into  commons.  The term DICKEY, a half shirt, I am told, originated with the students of Trinity College, Dublin, who at first styled it a  tommy,  from the Greek, rojurj, a section.  Crib,  a literal translation, is now universal; GRIND refers to a walk, or *' constitutional;" HIVITE is a student of St. Begh's (St. Bee's) College, Cumberland; to  japan,  in this Slang speech, is to ordain; MORTAR-BOARD is a square college cap; SIM a student of a Methodistical turn,—in allusion to the Rev. Charles Simeon;  sloggers,  at Cambridge, refers to the second division of race boats, known at Oxford as TORPIDS; SPORT is to show or exhibit;  trotter  is the jocose term for a tailor's man who goes round for orders; and  tufts  are wealthy students who dine with the DONS, and are distinguished by golden  tvfisy  or tassels, in their</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-66"/>
      <p> caps. There are many terms in use at Oxford not known at Cambridge; and such Slang names as COACH, GULF, HARRY-SOPH, POKER, or POSTMORTEM, common enough at Cambridge, are seldom or never heard at the great sister University. For numerous other examples of college Slang, the reader is referred to the Dictionary.</p>
      <p> Religious Slang,  strange as the compound may appear, exists with other descriptions of vulgar speech at the present day.  Punch,  a short time since, in one of those half-humorous, half-serious articles in which he is so fond of lecturing any national abuse or popular folly, remarked that Slang had " long since penetrated into the Forum, and now we meet it in the Senate,  and even the Pulpit itself is no longer free from its intrusion.^^ I would not, for one moment, wish to infer that the practice is general. On the contrary, and in justice to the clergy, it must be said that the principal disseminators of pure English throughout the country are the ministers of our Established Church. Yet it cannot be denied but that a great deal of Slang phraseology and disagreeable vulgarism have gradually crept into the very pulpits which should give forth as pure speech as doctrine.</p>
      <p> Dean Conybeare, in his able  Essay on Church Parties,*  has noticed this wretched additionto our pulpit speech.    As stated in his Essay, the practice</p>
      <p> *  Edinburgh Review,  October, 1853.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-67"/>
      <p> appears to confine itself mainly to the exaggerated forms of the High and Low Church—the Tracta-rians and the " Recordites."* By way of illustration, the Dean cites the evening parties, or social meetings, common amongst the wealthier lay members of the Recordite (exaggerated Evangelical) Churches, where the principal topics discussed—one or more favourite clergymen being present in a quasi-ofEcial manner—are " the merits and demerits of different preachers, the approaching restoration of the Jews, the date of the Millennium, the progress of the ' Tractarian heresy,' and the anticipated * perversion' of High Church neighbours." These subjects are canvassed in a dialect differing considerably from common English. The words  faithful, TAINTED, ACCEPTABLE, DECIDED, LEGAL, and many others, are used in a technical sense. We hear that Mr. A. has been more  owned  than Mr. B; and that Mr. C. has more SEALSf than Mr. D. Again, the word GRACIOUS is invested with a meaning as extensive as that attached by young ladies to  nice. Thus, we hear of a  "gracious  sermon," a "  gracious  meeting," a "  gracious  child, and even a "  gracious  whipping."     The word  dark</p>
      <p> * A term derived from the  Record Newspaper,  the exponent of this singular section of the Low, or so called Evangelical Church.</p>
      <p> + A preacher ia said, in this phraseology, to be ovraED, when be makes many converts, and his converts are called Lis  seals.</p>
      <p> f2</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-68"/>
      <p> has also a new and peculiar usage. It is applied to every person, book, or place, not impregnated with Recordite principles.  We  once were witnesses of a ludicrous misunderstanding resulting from this phraseology.    " What did you mean (said A. to B.) by</p>
      <p> telling me that was such a very  dark  village ?</p>
      <p> I rode over there to day, and found the street particularly broad and cheerful, and there is not a tree in the place." "  The Gospel is not preached there^'' was B.'s laconic reply. The conclusion of one of these singular evening parties is generally marked by an "  exposition  "—an unseasonable sermon of nearly one hour's duration, circumscribed by no text, and deHvered from the table by one of the clerical visitors with a view to "improve the occasion." In the same Essay, the religious Slang terms for the two great divisions of the EstabHshed Church, receive some explanation. The old-fashioned High Church party, rich and " stagnant," noted for its "sluggish mediocrity, hatred of zeal, dread of innovation, abuse of dissent, blundering and languid Titterance," is called the HIGH AND DRY; whilst the corresponding division, known as the Low Church, equally stagnant with the former, but poorer, and more lazily inclined (from absence of education), to dissent, receives the nickname of the  low and SLOW. Already have these terras become so familiar that they are shortened, in ordinary conversation, to the  DRY and the SLOW.    The so-called  " Broad</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-69"/>
      <p> Clnirch/' I should remark, is often spoken of as the BROAD AND SHALLOW.</p>
      <p> What can be more objectionable than the irreverent and offensive manner in which many of the dissenting ministers continually pronounce the names of the Deity, God and Lord. God, instead of pronouncing in the plain and beautifully simple old English way, G-o-D, they drawl out into GORDE or GAUDE; and Lord, instead of speaking in the proper way, they desecrate into  LOARD  or LOERD,—lingering on the  zi,  or the  r,  as the case may be, until an honest hearer feels disgusted, and almost inclined to run the gauntlet of beadles and deacons, and pull the vulgar preacher from his pulpit. I have observed that many young preachers strive hard to acquire this peculiar pronunciation, in imitation of the older ministers. What can more properly, then, be called Slang, or, indeed, the most objectionable of Slang, than this studious endeavour to pronounce the most sacred names in a uniformly vulgar and unbecoming manner. If the old-fashioned preacher whistled Cant through his nose, the modern vulgar reverend whines Slang from the more natural organ. These vagaries of speech will, perhaps, by an apologist, be termed " pulpit peculiarities," and the writer dared to intermeddle with a subject that is or should be removed from his criticisms. The terms used by the mob towards the Church, however illiberal and satirically vulgar,</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-70"/>
      <p> are within his province in such an inquiry as the present. A clergyman, in vulgar language, is spoken of as a  choker,  a  cushion thumper,  a</p>
      <p> DOMIXE, an EARWIG, a GOSPEL GRINDER, a GRAY COAT PARSON—if he is a lessee of the great tithes, ONE IN TEN, PADRE—if spoken of by an Anglo-Indian, a ROOK, a SPOUTER, a W^HITE CHOKER, or a WARMING PAN RECTOR, if he only holds the living  pro tempore^  or is simply keeping the place warm for his successor. If a Tractarian, liis outer garment is rudely spoken of as a  pygostole,  or M.B.  (mark of  THE  beast)  COAT. His profession is termed  the cloth,  and his practice TUB  thumping.  Should he belong to the dissenting body, he is probably styled a  pantiler,  or a PSALM  smiter,  or, perhaps, a  swaddler.  His chapel, too, is spoken of as a SCHISM  shop.  A Roman CathoUc, I may remark, is coarsely named a  brisket beater.</p>
      <p> Particular as lawyers generally are about the meaning of words, they have not prevented an unauthorised phraseology from arising, which we may term  Legal Slang.  So forcibly did this truth impress a late writer, that he wrote in a popular journal, " You may hear Slang every day in term from barristers in their robes, at every mess-table, at every bar-mess, at every college commons, and in every club dining-room." Swift, in Ms  Art of polite Conversation  (p. 15), published a century and</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-71"/>
      <p> a half ago, states that  VARDI  was the Slang in his time for " verdict." A few of the most common and well-known terms used out of doors, with reference to legal matters, are COOK, to hash or make iip a balance-sheet; DIPPED, mortgaged; DUN, to solicit payment;  fullied,  to be  '•^fully  committed for trial;"  land-shark,  a sailor's definition of a lawyer ;  limb of the law,  a milder term for the same " professional;" MONKEY  with a long TAIL, a mortgage—phrase used in the well-known case for libel. Smith  v.  Jones;  mouthpiece,  the coster's term for his counsel; " to go through the RING," to take advantage of the Insolvency Act; SMASH, to become bankrupt;  snipe,  an attorney with a long bill; and  whitewashed,  said of any debtor who has taken the benefit of the Insolvent Act. Lawyers, from their connection with the police courts, and transactions with persons in every grade of society, have ample opportunities for acquiring street Slang, which in cross-questioning and wrangling they frequently avail themselves of.</p>
      <p> It has been said there exists a  Literary Slang, or " the  Slang of Criticism —dramatic, artistic, and scientific. Such words as ' aesthetic,' ' transcendental,' the * harmonies,' the ' unities,' a ' myth:' such phrases as ' an exquisite  morceau  on the big drum,' a ' scholarlike renderino; of John the Baptist's great toe,' ' keeping harmony,' ' middle distance,' ' aerial perspective,'   ' delicate hand-</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-72"/>
      <p> ling,' ' nervous cliiaroscuro,' and the like." More than one literary journal that I could name are fond of employing such terms in their art criticisms, but it is questionable, after all, whether they are not allowable as the generous inflections and bendings of a bountiful language, for the purpose of expressing fresh phases of thought, and ideas not yet provided with representative words.* The well-known and ever-acceptable  Punch,  with his fresh and choice little pictorial bits by Leech, often employs a Slang term to give point to a joke, or humour to a line of satire. A short time since ('4th May, 1859) he gave an original etymology of the school-boy-ism  slog. Slog,  said the classical and studious  Punch,  is derived from the Greek word SLOGO, to baste, to wallop, to slaughter. And it was not long ago that he amused his readers with two columns on  Slang  and  Sanscrit: —</p>
      <p> " The allegory which pervades the conversation of all Eastern nations," remarked the philosophical  Punch,  " is the foimdation of Western Slang; and the increased number of students of the Oriental languages, especially since Sanscrit and Arabic have been made subjects for the Indian Civil Service Examinations, may have contributed to supply the English language with a</p>
      <p> * " All our newspapers contain more or less colloquial words ; in fact, there seems no other way of expressing certain ideas connected with passing events of every-day life, with the requisite force and piquancy. In the English newspapers the same thing is observable, and certain of them contain more of the class denominated Slang words than our own."— Bartletfs Americanisms,  p. x., 1859.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-73"/>
      <p> large portion of its Dew dialect. While, however, tlie spirit of allegory comes from the East, there is so great a difference between the brevity of Western expression and the more cumbrous diction of the Oriental, that the origin of a phrase becomes difficult to trace. Thus, for instance, whilst the Turkish merchant might address his friend somewhat as follows—'That which seems good to my father is to his servant as the perfumed breath of the west wind in the calm night of the Arabian summer;' the Western negociator observes more briefly,  'all SERENE !'"</p>
      <p> But the vulgar term, BRICK,  Punch  remarks in illustration,</p>
      <p> " must be allowed to be an exception, its Gre'ek derivation being universally admitted, corresponding so exactly as it does in its rectangular form and compactness to the perfection of manhood, according to the views of  Plato  and  Simonides ;  but any deviation from the simple expression, in which locality is indicated,—as, for instance, 'a genuine Bath,'—decidedly breathes the Oriental spirit."</p>
      <p> It is singular that what  Punch  says, unwittingly and in humour, respecting the Slang expression, BOSH, should be quite true.  Bosh,  remarks  Punch, after speaking of it as belonging to the stock of words pilfered from the Turks, "is one whose innate force and beauty the slangographer is reluctantly compelled to admit. It is the only word which seems a proper appellation for a great deal which we are obliged to hear and to read every day of our life." BoSH, nonsense or stupidity, is derived from the  Gipsey  and the  Persian.  The universality of Slang, I may here remark, is proved</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-74"/>
      <p> by its continual use in tlie pages of  Punch.  Whoever thinks, unless belonging to a past generation, of asking a friend to explain the stray vulgar words employed by the  London Charivari ?</p>
      <p> The  AthencBum,  the most learned and censor-like of all the " weeklies," often induWs in a Slanfj word, when force of expression or a little humour is desired, or when the writer wishes to say something which is better said in Slang, or so-called vulgar speech, than in the authorised language of Dr. Johnson or Lindley Murray. It was but the other day that a writer in its pages employed an old and favourite word, used always when we were highly pleased with any article at school,—STUNNING.  Bartlett.  the compiler of the  Dictionary of Americanisms,  continually cites the  Athenaum  as using Slang and vulgar expressions ;—but the magazine the American refers to is not the excellent literary journal which is so esteemed at the present day, it was a smaller, and now defunct " weekly." Many other highly respectable journals often use Slang words and phrases. The  Times  (or, in Slang, the  thunderer)  frequently employs unauthorised terms; and, following a " leader"* of the purest and most eloquent English composition, may sometimes be seen another "article"* on a totally</p>
      <p> * The terms  leader  and  article  can scarcely be called Slang, yet it would be desirable to know upon what authority they were first employed in their present peculiar sense.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-75"/>
      <p> different subject, containing, perhaps, a score or more of exceedingly questionable words. Among the words and phrases which may be included under the head of Literary Slang are,—BALAAM, matter kept constantly in type about monstrous productions of nature, to fill up spaces in newspapers; BALAAM BOX, the term given in  Blackwood  to the depository for rejected articles; and  slate,  to pelt with abuse, or  cut up  in a review. The Slang names given to newspapers are curious;—thus, the Morning Advertiser  is known as the  tap-tub,  the TiZER, and the GIN  and gospel gazette.  The Morning Posthas  obtained the suggestive  soubriquet of  JEAMES;  whilst the  Morning Herald  has long been caricatured as MRS. HARRIS, and the  Standard as MRS. GAMP.*</p>
      <p> The  Stage,  of course, has its Slang—" both before and behind the curtain," as a journalist remarks. The stage manager is familiarly termed  daddy; and an actor by profession, or a " professional," is called a PRO. A man who is occasionally hired at a trifling remuneration to come upon the stage as one of a crowd, or when a number of actors are wanted to give effect, is named a SUP,—an abbreviation of " supernumerary." A SURF is a third-rate actor who frequently pursues another calling;</p>
      <p> * For some account of the origin of these nicknames see unrler Mrs. Harris  in the Dictionary.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-76"/>
      <p> T6   SLANG  ON  THE  STAGE,</p>
      <p> and the band, or orchestra between the pit and the stage, is generally spoken of as the  menagery.  A BEN is a benefit; and SAL is the Slang abbreviation of " salary." Should no wages be forthcoming on the Saturday night, it is said that the GHOST doesn't walk.  The travelling or provincial theatricals, who perform in any large room that can be rented in a country village, are called  barn STORMERS. A LENGTH is forty-two lines of any dramatic composition; and a  run  is the good or bad success of a performance. A  saddle  is the additional charge made by a manager to an actor or actress upon their benefit night. To MUG UP is to paint one's face, or arrange the person to represent a particular character; to CORPSE, or to STICK, is to balk, or put the other actors out in their parts by forgetting yours. A performance is spoken of as either a  GOOSER  or a  screamer,  should it be a failure or a great success;—if the latter, it is not infrequently termed a HIT. To  star it  is to perform as the centre of attraction, with none but subordinates and indifferent actors in the same performance. The expressive term  clap-trap, high-sounding nonsense, is nothing but an ancient theatrical term, and signified a  trap  to catch a clap  by way of applause. "Up amongst the GODS," refers to being among the spectators in the gallery,—termed in French Slang  paradis.</p>
      <p> There exists, too, in the great territory of vulgar</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-77"/>
      <p> speech wliat may not inappropriately  he  termed Civic Slang.  It consists of mercantile and Stock Exchange terms, and the Slang of good living and wealth. A turkey hung with sausages is facetiously styled AN ALDERMAN IN CHAINS; and a half-crown, perhaps from its rotundity, is often termed an ALDERMAN. A BEAR is a speculator on the Exchange; and a BULL, although of another order, follows a like profession. There is something very humorous and applicable in the slang term LAME DUCK, a defaulter in stock-jobbing speculations. The allusion to his " waddling out of the Alley," as they say, is excellent.  Breaking shins,  in City slang, is borrowing money; a rotten or unsound scheme is spoken of as nSHY; "  riggino the market" means playing tricks with it; and STAG was a common term during the railway mania for a speculator without capital, a seller of " scrip" in " Diddlesex Junction" and other equally safe lines. In Lombard-street a MONKEY is £500, a PLUM £100,000, and a  marygold  is one miUion sterling. But before I proceed further in a sketch of the different kinds of Slang, I cannot do better than to speak here of the extraordinary number of Cant and Slang terms in use to represent money, —from farthings to bank notes the value of fortunes.  Her Majesty s coin, collectively or in the 2)iece, is insulted hy no less than one hundred and thirty distinct  Slang  words,    from   the   humble</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-78"/>
      <p> BROWN  (a   halfpenny)   to    flimsies,    or  LONG-TAILED ONES (bank notes).</p>
      <p> " Money," it has been well remarked, " the bare, simple word itself, has a sonorous, significant ring in its sound," and might have sufficed, one would have imagined, for all ordinary purposes. But a vulgar or "fast" society has thought differently, and so we have the Slang synonymes  beans, BLUNT,  (i.e.,  specie,—not  .stiff ov rags,  bank notes), beads, brass, bustle, coppers  (copper money, or mixed pence),  chink, chinkers, chips, corks, dibbs, dinarly, dimmock, dust, feathers, gent  (silver,—from  argent),  haddock  (a purse of money),  horse nails, loaver, lour  (the oldest Cant term for money),  mopusses, needful, nob-BINGS (money collected in a hat by street performers),  ochre  (gold),  pewter, palm oil, queen's pictures, quids, rags  (bank notes), ready,  or  ready gilt, redge  (gold),  rhino, ROWDY, SHINERS (sovereigns),  skin  (a purse of money), STIFF (paper, or bill of acceptance),  stuff, stumpy, tin  (silver),  wedge  (silver), and  yellow-BOYS (sovereigns);—just forty-two vulgar equivalents for the simple word  money.  So attentive is Slang speech to financial matters, that there are seven terms for bad, or "bogus" coin (as our friends, the Americans, call it): a  case  is a counterfeit five-shilling piece;  half a case  represents half that sum;  grays  are halfpence made double</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-79"/>
      <p> SLAKG TERMS FOR MONEY.</p>
      <p> for gambling purposes; QUEER-SOFT Is counterfeit or lead coin;  schofel  refers to coated or spurious coin;  sheen  is bad money of any description; and sinkers  bears the same and not inappropriate meaning.  Flying the kite,  or obtaining money on bills and promissory notes, is a curious allusion to children tossing about a paper kite; and  raising the wind  is a well-known phrase for procuring money by immediate sale, pledging, or a forced loan. In winter or in summer any elderly gentleman who may have prospered in life is pronounced WARM; whilst an equivalent is immediately at hand in the phrase " his pockets are well  lined."  Each separate piece of money has its own Slang term, and often half a score of synonymes. To begin with that extremely humble coin, a  farthing:  first we have FADGE, then  fiddler,  then  gig,  and lastly QUARTEREEN. A  halfpenny  is a  brown  or a MADZA 8ALTEE (Cant), or a MAG, or a  posh,  or a RAP,—whence the popular phrase, " I don't care a rcj9." The useful and universal  penny  has for Slang equivalents a  copper,  a  saltee  (Cant), and a WINN.  Two-pence  is a  deuce,  and  three-fence  is either a  thrums  or a  thrups.  Four-pence,  or a groat,  may in vulgar speech be termed a  bit,  a flag,  or a  joey.  Six-pence  is well represented in street talk, and some of the Slangisms are very comical, for instance,  bandy, bender, cripple, and  downer;  then we have  fye-buck, half a</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-80"/>
      <p> 80       OLD SLANG TERMS FOR MONEY.</p>
      <p> HOG, KICK (thus " two and a kick," or 2s. 6d.), LORD OF THE MANOR, PIG, POT (the price of a pot  of beer), SNiD,  sprat, sow's baby, tanner, TESTER, Tizzr,—sixteen vulgar words to one coin. Seven-pence  being an uncommon amount has only one Slang synonyme,  setter.  The same remark applies to  eight-pence  and  nine-pence,  the former being only represented by  otter,  and the latter by the Cant phrase,  nobba-saltee.  Ten-pence  is DACHA-SALTEE, and  elevBH-pence  DACHA-ONE,— both Cant expressions.  One shilling  boasts ten Slang equivalents ; thus we have  beong, bob, breaky-leg, deaner, gen  (either from  argent, silver, or the back slang),  hog, peg, stag, teviss, and  twelver.  Half-a-crown  is known as an alderman, half a bull, half a tusheroon, and a  madza CAROON;  whilst a  crown  piece, or Jive shillings,  may be called either a BULL, or a CAROON, or a CARTWHEEL, or a  coachwheel, or a THICK-UN, or a  tusheroon.  The next advance in Slang money is  ten shillings,  or  half-a-sovereign,  which may be either pronounced as  half a bean, half a couter,  a  madza poona,  or HALF A QUID.    A  sovereign,  or  twenty shillings,  is</p>
      <p> a BEAN, CANARY, COUTER, FOONT, GOLDFINCH, JAMES, POONA, QUID, a THICK-UN, Or a YELLOW-BOY.  Guineas  are nearly obsolete, yet the terms NEDS, and HALF NEDS, are still in use. Bank notes are  flimsies, long-tailed ones,  or  soft.     A</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-81"/>
      <p> CLASSICAL ORIGIN OF SLANG TERMS FOR MONEY.     81</p>
      <p> FINUF is a five-pound note. One hundred pounds (or any other " round sum ") quietly handed over as payment for services performed is curiously termed "a  cool  hundred." Thus ends, with several omissions, this long list of Slang terms for the coins of the realm, which for copiousness, I will engage to say, is not equalled by any other vulgar or unauthorised language in Europe.</p>
      <p> The antiquity of many of these Slang names is remarkable.  Winn  was the vulgar term for a penny in the days of Queen Elizabeth; and  tester,  a sixpence (formerly a shilling), was the correct name in the days of Henry the Eighth. The reader, too, will have remarked the frequency of animals' names as Slang terms for money. Little, as a modern writer has remarked, do the persons using these phrases know of their remote and somewhat classical origin, which may, indeed, be traced to the period antecedent to that when monarchs monopolised the surface of coined money with their own image and superscriptions. They are identical with the very name of money among the early Romans, which was  pecunia,  from jiecus,  a flock. The collections of coin dealers amply show that the figure of a  hog  was anciently placed on a small silver coin; and that that of a BULL decorated larger ones of the same metal. These coins were frequently deeply crossed on the reverse;   this was  for the  convenience  of easily</p>
      <p> G</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-82"/>
      <p> breaking them into two or more pieces, should the bargain for which they were employed require it, and the parties making it had no smaller change handy to complete the transaction. Thus we find that the  half bull  of the itinerant street seller, or " traveller,"* so far from being a phrase of modern invention, as is generally supposed, is in point of fact referable to an era extremely remote. There are many other Cant words directly from a classic source, as will be seen in the Dictionary.</p>
      <p> Sliopkeepers Slang  is, perhaps, the most offensive of all Slang. It is not a casual eyesore, as newspaper Slang, neither is it an occasional discomfort to the ear, as in the case of some vulgar byeword of the street; but it is a perpetual nuisance, and stares you in the face on tradesmen's invoices, on labels in the shop-windows, and placards on the hoardings, in posters against the house next to your own door—if it happens to be empty for a few weeks,—and in bills thrust into your hand, as you peaceably walk through the streets. Under your doors, and down your area, Slang hand-bills are dropped by some  pushing  tradesman, and for the thousandth time you are called upon to learn that an ALARMING SACRIFICE is taking place in the next street, that prices are  down again,  that in consequence of some other tradesman not  driving a  roaring trade,  being in fact  sold up,  and for the time being a resident in  burdon's hotel * See Dictionary.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-83"/>
      <p> (Whitecross-street Prison), the PUSHING tradesman wishes to sell out at  awfully low prices,  " to the kind patrons, and numerous customers," &amp;c. &amp;c., "that have on every occasion," &amp;c. &amp;c. In this Slang any occupation or calling is termed a LINE,— thus the "Building-LINE." A tailor usurps to himself a good deal of Slang. Amongst operatives he is called a SNIP, or a STEEL  bar driver  ; by the world, a  ninth part of a man  ; and by the young collegian, or " fast" man, a SUFFERER. If he takes army contracts, it is SANK WORK; if he is a SLOP tailor, he is a  springer up,  and his garments are BLOWN TOGETHER. Perquisites with him are  spiffs,  and remnants of cloth,  peaking. The percentage he allows to his assistants (or counter jumpers)  on the sale of old-fashioned articles, is termed  tinge.  If he pays his workmen in goods, or gives them tickets upon other tradesmen, with whom he shares the profit, he is soon known as a  tommy master.  If his business succeeds, it takes  ; if neglected, it becomes  shaky,  and  goes TO POT; if he is deceived by a creditor (a not by any means unusual circumstance) he is  let in,  or, as it is sometimes varied,  taken in.  I need scarcely remark that any credit he may give  is termed  tick.</p>
      <p> Operatives or Workmen's Slang,  in quality, is but slightly removed from tradesmen's Slang. When belonging to the same shop or factory, they  graft</p>
      <p> g2</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-84"/>
      <p> there, and are  brother chips.  They generally dine at  slap bang shops,  and are often paid at TOMMY SHOPS. At the nearest  pub,  or public-house, they generally have a SCORE  chalked up against them, which has to be  wiped off  regularly on the Saturday night. When out of work, they borrow a word from the flunkey vocabulary, and describe themselves as being  out op collar. They term each other PLINTS and DUNGS, if they are "society " or " non-society" men. Their salary is a  screw,  and to be discharged is to  get the sack.  When they quit work, they KNOCK  off  ; and when out of employ, they ask if any HANDS are wanted.  Fat  is the vulgar synonyme for perquisites;  elbow-grease  signifies labour; and SAINT MONDAY is the favourite day of the week. Names of animals figure plentifully in the workman's vocabulary; thus we have GOOSE, a tailor's smoothing iron; SHEEp's-FOOT, an iron hammer; SOW, a receptacle for molten iron, whilst the metal poured from it is termed  pig.  I have often thought that many of the Slang terms for money originally came from the workshop, thus—BRADS, from the ironmonger;  chips,  from the carpenter; DUST, from the goldsmith;  feathers,  from the upholsterer;  horse nails,  from the farrier;  haddock,  from the fishmonger; and  tanner,  from the leather-dresser. The subject is curious. Allow me to call the attention of numismatists to it.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-85"/>
      <p> There yet remain several distinct divisions of Slang to be examined;—the Slang of the  stable,  or jockey  Slang; the Slang of  i\iQprize ring;  the Slang o? servitude, or flunk eydom ;  vulgar, or  street  Slang; the Slang of  softened oaths;  and the Slang of intoxication.  I shall only examine the last two. If society, as has been remarked, is a sham, from the vulgar foundation of commonalty to the crowning summit of royalty, especially do we perceive the justness of the remark in the Slang makeshifts for oaths, and sham exclamations for passion and temper. These apologies for feeling are a disgrace to our vernacular, although it is some satisfaction to know that they serve the purpose of reducing the stock of national profanity. " You  be blowed," or "I'll BE BLOWED IF," &amp;c., is an exclamation often heard in the streets.  Blazes,  or " like BLAZES," came probably from the army.  Blast, too, although in general vulgar use, may have had a like origin; so may the phrase, " I wish I may be SHOT, if," &amp;c.  Blow me tight,  is a very windy and common exclamation. The same may be said of STRIKE ME LUCKY, NEVER TRUST ME, and SO HELP ME DAVY; the latter derived from the truer old phrase,  i'll take my davy On't,  i.e., my  affidavit,  DAVY being a corruption of that word. By golly, gol darn it,  and so  help me bob, are evident shams for profane oaths.  Nation  is but a softening of  damnation;  and OD, whether</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-86"/>
      <p> used in OD DRAT IT, or  Od's  BLOOD, is but an apology for the name of the Deity. The Irish phrase,  bad SCran to ter  ! is equivalent to wishing a person bad food. " I'm  sniggered  if you ■will," and " I'm  jiggered,"  are other stupid forms of mild swearing",—fearful of committing an open profanity, yet slyly nibbling at the sin. Both DEUCE and DICKENS are vulgar old synonymes for the devil; and ZOUNDS is an abbreviation of  GOd's WOUNDS,—a very ancient catholic oath.</p>
      <p> In a casual survey of the territory of Slang, it is curious to observe how well represented are the familiar wants and failings of life. First, there's money, with one hundred and twenty Slang terms and synonymes; then comes drink, from small beer to champagne; and next, as a very natural sequence,  intoxication,  and fuddlement generally, with some half a hundred vulgar terms, graduating the scale of drunkenness from a slight inebriation, to the soaky state of gutterdom and stretcherdom, —I pray the reader to forgive the expressions. The Slang synonymes for mild intoxication are certainly very choice,—they are  beery, bemused, BOOZY, BOSKY, BUFFY, CORNED, FOGGY, FOU, FRESH, HAZY, ELEVATED, KISKY, LUSHY, MOONY, MUGGY, MUZZY, ON, SCREWED, STEWED, TIGHT, and wiNEY. A higher or more intense state of beastliness is represented by the expressions, PODGY, BEARGERED,BLUED, CUT, PRIMED,</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-87"/>
      <p> LUMPY, PLOUGHED, MUDDLED, OBFUSCATED, SWIPEY, THREE SHEETS IN THE WIND, and TOP-HEAVY. But the climax of fuddlement is only obtained when the  disguised  individual  can't SEE A HOLE  IN A LADDER,  or when he is all</p>
      <p> MOPS   AND BROOMS,   Or OFF HIS   NUT, Or with his</p>
      <p> main-brace well  SPLICED, or with the  sun in HIS EYES, or when he has  lapped the gutter, and got the  gravel rash,  or on the  ran-tan,  or on the  re-raw,  or when he is  sewed up,  or regularly  SCAMMERED, —then, and not till then, is he entitled in vulgar society to the title of LUSHINGTON, or recommended to  put in the pin.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-88"/>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-89"/>
      <p> DICTIONARY OF MODERN SLANG, CANT, &amp; VULGAR WORDS;</p>
      <p> MANY WITH THEIR ETYMOLOGIES TRACED.</p>
      <p> A 1, first rate, the very best; " she's a prime girl she is; she is A 1."— Sam Slich.  The highest classification of ships at Lloyd's; common term in the United States, also at Liverpool and other English seaports. Another, even more intensitive form, is " first-class, letter A, No. 1."</p>
      <p> ABOUT RIGHT, "to do the thing  about right,"  i.e.,  to do it properly, soundly, correctly j " he guv it 'im  about bight," i.e.,  he beat him severely,</p>
      <p> ABRAM-SHAM, or  sham-abraham,  to feign sickness or distress. From ABRAM MAN, the  ancient cant  term for a begging impostor, or one who pretended to have been mad.— Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy,  part i., sec. 2, vol. i., p. 360. When Abraham Newland was Cashier of the Bank of  Eng-land, and signed their notes, it was sung :—</p>
      <p> " I have heard people say That SHAM ABRAHAM you Hiay, But you mustn't  sham Abraham  Newland."</p>
      <p> ABSQUATULATE, to run away, or abscond; a hybrid  American expression, from the Latin  ab,  and " squat," to settle.</p>
      <p> ADAM'S ALE, water.— English.  The  Scotch  term is  adam's wine.</p>
      <p> AGGERAWATORS (corruption of  Aggravators),  the greasy locks of hair in vogue among costermongers and other street  folk, worn twisted fi-om the temple back towards</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-90"/>
      <p> the ear. They are also, from a supposed resemblance in form, termed  newgate knockebs,  which see.— Sola's  Gat-light,  &amp;c.</p>
      <p> ALDERMAN, a half crown—possibly from its rotundity. ALDERMAN, a turkey.</p>
      <p> ALDERMAN IN CHAINS, a turkey hung with sausages. ALL OF A HUGH ! all on one side, or with a thump; the word HUGH being pronounced with a grunt.— Suffolk.</p>
      <p> ALL MY EYE, answer of astonishment to an improbable story; ALL MY EYE AND BETTY MARTIN, a vulgar phrase with similar meaning, said to be the commencement of a Popish praj'er to St. Martin, " Oh mihi, beate Martine," and fallen into discredit at the Reformation.</p>
      <p> ALL-OVERISH, neither sick nor well, the premonitory symptoms of illness.</p>
      <p> ALL-ROUNDERS, the fashionable shirt collars  of  the  present</p>
      <p> time worn meeting in front. ALL-SERENE, an ejaculation of acquiescence. ALLS, tap-droppings, refuse spirits sold at a cheap  rate in  gin-palaces.  See  LOVEAGE.</p>
      <p> ALL-THERE, in strict fashion, first-rate, "up to the mark;"  a</p>
      <p> vulgar person would speak of a  spruce, showily-dressed</p>
      <p> female as being  all-theke.     An artizan  would  use  the</p>
      <p> same phrase to express the capabilities of  a  skilful fellow</p>
      <p> workman. ALL TO PIECES, utterly, excessively; " he beat him  all to</p>
      <p> PIECES,"  i.e..  excelled or surpassed him exceedingly. ALL TO SMASH, or  gone to pieces,  bankrupt, or smashed to</p>
      <p> pieces.— So me rsetsh ire. ALMIGHTY DOLLAR, an  Amencan  expression for the " power</p>
      <p> of money," first introduced by Washington Irving in 1837. AN'T, or A'iN'T, the vulgar abbreviation of "am not," or "are</p>
      <p> not." ANOINTING, a good beating. ANY HOW, in any way, or at any rate, bad; "  he went on  ant</p>
      <p> how,"  ie.,  badly or indifferently. APPLE CART, " down with  his  apple cart,"  i.e.,  upset him.—</p>
      <p> North. APPLE PIE ORDER, in exact or very nice order. AREA-SNEAK, a boy thief who commits depredations upon</p>
      <p> kitchens  and  cellars.— See  CBOW.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-91"/>
      <p> ARGOT, a term used amongst London thieves for their secret</p>
      <p> or cant language.     French  term for slang. ARTICLE, a man or boy, derisive term. ARY, corruption of ever a, e'er a;  art one,  e'er a one. ATTACK, to carve, or commence operations on ;  "attack  that</p>
      <p> beef, and oblige !"</p>
      <p> ATTIC, the head ; " queer in the  attic,"  intoxicated.— Pugilistic.</p>
      <p> AUNT-SALLY, a favourite game on race-courses and at fairs, consisting of a wooden head mounted on a stick, firmly fixed in the ground ; in the nose of which, or rather in that part of the facial arrangement of  aunt sally  which is generally considered incomplete without a nasal projection, a tobacco pipe is inserted. The fun consists in standing at a distance and demolishing  aunt sally's  pipe-clay projection with short bludgeons, very similar to the half of a broom-handle. The Duke of Beaufort is a " crack hand" at smashing pipe noses, and Lis performances two years ago on Brighton race-course are yet fresh in remembrance. The noble Duke, in the summer months, frequently drives the old London and Brighton four-horse mail coach, "Age"—a whim singular enough now, but common forty years ago."</p>
      <p> AUTUMN, a slang term for an execution by hanging. When the drop was introduced instead of the old gallows, cart, and ladder, and a man was for the first time "turned-off" in the pi'esent fashion, the mob were so pleased with the invention that they spoke of the operation as at  autumn, or the FALL OP  the leap (sc.  the drop), with the man about to be hung.</p>
      <p> AVAST, a sailor's phrase for stop, shut up, go away,—apparently connected with the  old cant,  bynge a waste.</p>
      <p> AWAKE, or  fly,  knowing, thoroughly understanding, not ignorant of. The phrase WIDE  awake  carries the same meaning in ordinary conversation.</p>
      <p> AWFUL (or, with the Cockneys,  orful),  a senseless expletive, used to intensify a description of anything good or bad ; "what an  awful  fine woman!"  i.e.,  how handsome, or showy !</p>
      <p> AXE, to ask.— Saxon,  acsian.</p>
      <p> BABES, the lowest order of  knock-outs  (which see), who are prevailed upon not to give opposing biddings at auctions, in consideration of their receiving a small sum (from one shilling to half-a-crown), and a certain quantity of beer. Babes  exist in Baltimore, U.S., where they are known as blackguards and " rowdies."</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-92"/>
      <p> BACK JUMP, a back window.</p>
      <p> BACK SLANG IT, to go out the back way.</p>
      <p> BACK OUT, to retreat from a difficulty; the reverse of  CO AHEAD.    Metaphor borrowed from the stables.</p>
      <p> BACON, " to save one's  bacon,"  to escape.</p>
      <p> BAD, " to go to the  bad,"  to deteriorate in character, be ruined. Virgil  has an exactly similar phrase^  in pejus ruere.</p>
      <p> BAGMAN, a commercial traveller.</p>
      <p> BAGS, trowsers. Trowsers of an extensive pattern, or exaggerated fashionable cut, have lately been termed  howling-BAGS, but only when the style has been very  "loud."  The word is probably an abbreviation for b-mbags. " To have the BAGS off," to be of age and one's own master, to have plenty of money.</p>
      <p> BAKE, " he's only  half baked,"  i.e.,  soft, inexperienced.</p>
      <p> BAKER'S DOZEN. This consists of thirteen or fourteen; the surplus number, called the  inbread,  being thrown in for fear of incurring the penalty for short weight. To " give a man a  baker's dozen,"  in a slang sense, means to give him an extra good beating or pummelling.</p>
      <p> BALAAM, printers' slang for matter kept in type about monstrous productions of nature, &amp;c., to fill up spaces in newspapers that would otherwise be vacant. The term  balaam-box  has long been used in  Blackwood  as the name of the depository for rejected articles.</p>
      <p> BALL, prison allowance, viz., six ounces of meat.</p>
      <p> BALLYRAG, to scold vehemently, to swindle one out of his money by intimidation and sheer abuse, as alleged in a late cab case  {Evans  v.  Robinson).</p>
      <p> BALMY, insane.</p>
      <p> BAMBOOZLE, to deceive, make fun of, or cheat a person; abbreviated to  bam,  which is used also as a substantive, a deception, a sham, a " sell."  Sicift  says  bamboozle  was invented by a nobleman in the reign of Charles II.; but this I conceive to be an error. The probability is that a nobleman first  used  it in polite society. The term is derived from the  Gipseys.</p>
      <p> BANDED, hungry.</p>
      <p> BANDY, or  cripple,  a sixpence, so called from this coin being generally bent or crooked; old term for flimsy or bad cloth, temp. Q. Elizabeth.</p>
      <p> BANG, to excel or surpass;  banging,  great or thumping.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-93"/>
      <p> BANG-UP, first-rate.</p>
      <p> BANTLING, a child; stated in  Bacchm and Venus,  1737, and</p>
      <p> by  Grose,  to be a cant term. BANYAN-DAY, a day on which no meat is served out for</p>
      <p> rations;   probably  derived   from the  banians,  a Hindoo</p>
      <p> caste, who abstain from animal food.— Sea. BAE, or BARRING, excepting; in common use in the betting-ring; " I bet against the field  bar  two."    The Irish use of</p>
      <p> barrin'  is very similar. BARKER, a man employed to cry at the doors of "gaffs," shows,</p>
      <p> and puffing shops, to entice people inside. BARKING IRONS, pistols.</p>
      <p> BARNACLES, a pair of spectacles ; corruption of  binoculi  ? BARNEY, a  lark, spree,  rough enjoyment; " get up a  barnbt,"</p>
      <p> to have a " lark." BARNEY, a mob, a crowd. BARN-STORMERS,   theatrical   performers   who   travel   the</p>
      <p> country and act in barns, selecting short and frantic pieces</p>
      <p> to suit the rustic taste.— Theatrical. BARRIKIN, jargon, speech, or discourse; "we can't tumble to</p>
      <p> that BARRIKIN,"  i.e.,  we don't understand what he says.</p>
      <p> Miege  calls it " a sort of stuff."</p>
      <p> BASH, to beat, thrash; "  bashing  a donna," beating a woman; originally a provincial word, and chiefly applied to the practice of beating walnut trees, when in bud, with long poles, to increase their productiveness. Hence the West country proverb—</p>
      <p> "A woman, a whelp, and a walnut tree. The more you  bash  'em, the better they be."</p>
      <p> BAT, " on his own  bat,"  on his own account.— See  hook.</p>
      <p> BATS, a pair of bad boots.</p>
      <p> BATTER, " on the  batter,"  literally " on the streets," or given up to roistering and debauchery.</p>
      <p> BATTLES, the students' term at Oxford for rations. At Cambridge, COMMONS.</p>
      <p> BAWDYKEN, a brothel.—See  ken.</p>
      <p> BAZAAR, a shop or counter.     Gipsey  and  Hindoo,  a market.</p>
      <p> BEAK, a magistrate, judge, or policeman; " baffling the  beak," to get remanded.  Ancient cant,  beck.  Saxon,  beao,  a necklace or gold collar—emblem of authority. Sir John Fielding was called the  blind-beak  in the last century</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-94"/>
      <p> Query, if connected with the Italian  becco,  which means a (bird's)  beah,  and also a  blockhead.</p>
      <p> BEAKER-HUI^TER, a stealer of poultry.</p>
      <p> BEANS, money; " a haddock of  beans,"  a purse of money; formerly BEAN meant a guinea;  French,  biexs,  property; also used as a synonyme for  brick,  which see.</p>
      <p> BEAR, one who contracts to deliver or sell a certain quantity of stock in the public funds on a forthcoming day at a stated place, but who does not possess it, trusting to a decline in public securities to enable him to fulfil the agreement and realise a profit.—(See  bull.  Both words are slang terms on the Stock Exchange, and are frequently used in the business columns of newspapers.</p>
      <p> "He who sells that of which he is not possessed is proverbially eaid to sell the skin before he has caught the  bbab.  It was the practice of stock-jobbers, in the year 1720, to enter into a contract for transferring South Sea Stock at a future time for a certain price; but he who contracted to sell had frequently no stock to transfer, nor did he who bought intend to receive any in consequence of his bargain; the seller was, therefore, called a  bear,  in allusion to the proverb, and the buyer a  bcll,  perhaps only as a similar distinction. The contract was merely a wazer, to be determined by the rise or fall of stock ; if it rose, the seller paid the difference to the buyer, proportioned to the sum determined by the same computation to the seller."— Dr. Warlon on Pope.</p>
      <p> BEARGERED, to be druuk.</p>
      <p> BEAT, or  beat-hollow,  to surpass or excel.</p>
      <p> BEAT, the allotted range traversed by a policeman on duty.</p>
      <p> BEAT-OUT, DEAD-BEAT, tired or fagged.</p>
      <p> BEATER-CASES, boots :  Nearly obsolete.</p>
      <p> BEAVER, old street term for a hat; Goss is the modem word,</p>
      <p> BEAVER, except in the country, having fallen into disuse. BE-BLOWED, a windy exclamation equivalent to an oath.— See</p>
      <p> BLOW-ME.</p>
      <p> BED-POST, " in the twinkling of a  bed-post,"  in a moment, or very quickly. Originally  bed-staff,  a stick placed vertically in the frame of a bed to keep the bedding in its place.— ShadwelVs Virtuoso,  1676, act i., scene 1. This was used sometimes as a defensive weapon.</p>
      <p> BEE, "to have a  bee  in one's bonnet,"  i.e.,  to be not exactly sane.</p>
      <p> BEERY, intoxicated, or fuddled with beer.</p>
      <p> BEESWAX, poor soft cheese.</p>
      <p> BEETLE-CRUSHERS, or  squasheeb,  large flat feet.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-95"/>
      <p> BELCHER, a kind of handkerchief.— See  billy.</p>
      <p> BELL, a song.</p>
      <p> BELLOWS, the lungs.</p>
      <p> BELLOWSED, or  lagged,  transported.</p>
      <p> BELLOWS-TO-MEND, out of breath.</p>
      <p> BELLY-TIMBER, food, or "grub."</p>
      <p> BELLY-VENGEANCE, small sour beer, apt to cause gastralgia.</p>
      <p> BEMUSE, to fuddle one's self with drink, "  bemusing  himself</p>
      <p> with beer," &amp;c.— Sala's Gas-light and Day-light,  p. 308. BEN, a benefit.—  Theatrical. BEND, "that's above my  bend,"  i.e., beyond my power, too</p>
      <p> expensive, or too difficult for me to perform. BENDER, a sixpence,—from its liability to bend. BENDER, the arm;   " over   the  bender,"  synonymous with</p>
      <p> " over the left."— See  over.     Also an ironical exclamation</p>
      <p> similar to  walker. BENE, good.— Ancient cant;  benar  was the comparative.— See</p>
      <p> BONE.     Latin. BENJAMIN, a coat.    Formerly termed a  Joseph,  in  allusion,</p>
      <p> perhaps, to Joseph's coat of  many colours.— See  upper-benjamin. BENJY, a waistcoat. BEONG, a shilling.— See  saltee. BESTER, a low betting cheat.</p>
      <p> BESTING, excelling, cheating.   Bested,  taken in, or defrauded. BETTER, more ;  "how far is it to town ?"  " oh,  better  'n a</p>
      <p> mile.— Saxon  and  Old English,  now a vulgarism. BETTY, a skeleton key, or picklock.— Old cant. B. FLATS, bugs. BIBLE CARRIER, a  person who sells songs without singing</p>
      <p> them. BIG, "to look BIG," to assume an inflated dress, or manner; "to</p>
      <p> talk BIG,"  i e.,  boastingly, or with an " extensive" air. BIG-HOUSE, the work-house. BILBO, a sword;   abbrev. of  bilboa  blade.     Spanish   swords</p>
      <p> were anciently very celebrated, especially those of Toledo,</p>
      <p> Bilboa, &amp;c. BILK, a cheat, or a swindler.   Formerly in frequent use, now confined to the streets, where it is very general.     Gothic,</p>
      <p> bilaican.</p>
      <div class="newpage" id="page-96"/>
      <p> BILK, to defraud, or obtain goods, &amp;c. without paying for them; " to  bilk  the schoolmaster," to get information or experience without paying for it.</p>
      <p> BILLINGSGATE (when applied to speech), foul and coarse language. Not many years since, one of the London notorieties was to hear the fishwomen at Billingsgate abuse each other. The anecdote of Dr. Johnson and the Billingsgate virago is well known.</p>
      <p> BILLY, a silk pocket handkerchief.— Scotch. — See  wipe.</p>
      <p> •iiE* A list of the slang terms descriptive of the various patterns of handkerchiefs, pocket and neck, is here subjoined:—</p>
      <p> Belcheb,  close striped pattern, yellow silk, and intermixed with white and a little black; named from the pugilist, Jim Belcher. Bied's eye wt;pe,  diamond spots. Blood  RED  fancy,  red. Blue billy,  blue ground with white spots. Cream faxcy,  any pattern on a white ground. Green king's man,  any pattern on a green ground. Randal's man,  green, with white spots;  named after</p>
      <p> Jack Randal, pugilist. Water's man,  sky coloured. Yellow fancy,  yellow, with white spots. Yellow man,  all yellow. BILLY-BARLOW, a street clown;  sometimes  termed  a  jim CROW, or SALTIMBANCO,—so called from the hero of a slang song.— Bulwer's Paul Clifford. BILLY-HUNTING, buying old metal. BIRD-CAGE, a four-wheeled cab.</p>
      <p> BIT, fourpence; in America 12^ cents is  called a  bit,  and a defaced 20 cent piece is termed a  long bit.     A  bit  is the smallest coin in Jamaica, equal to 6d. BIT, a purse, or any sum of money. BIT-FAKER, or  turner out,  a coiner of bad money. BITCH, tea; "a  bitch  party," a tea-drinking.— University. BITE, a cheat; " a Yorkshire  bite,"  a cheating fellow from that county.— North;  also  old slang,  used by  Pope.    Swifc says it originated with a nobleman in his day. BITE, to cheat; " to be  bitten,"  to be taken in or imposed</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
